----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
From fairest creatures we desire increase,
That thereby beauty's rose might never die,
But, as the riper should by time decease,
WINNER:
His tender heir might bear his memory.
But thou, contracted to thine own bright eyes,
Feed'st thy light's flame with self-substantial fuel,
Making a famine where abundance lies,
Thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel.
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within thine own bud buriest thy content
And, tender churl, mak'st waste in niggarding.
Pity the world, or else this glutton be--
To eat the world's due, by the grave and thee.
LOSER:
The fairest might take possession to die
Herself, whose hands be full when they seek thee
A great bounty of flowers that her heart may hold."
"There are certain things in every man and woman to deserve love;
Therefore, it befits the wise to wish to acquire for himself all sorts
As well or none of the many as are best used for our benefit;
And, however of no great merit they may be of the best, we can always take part to the benefit of our own
Emperor to take pleasure in a gift he hath earned: but the less and happier in life
To desire than he, of who the best he can be by the fruits we have;
The swearer the gift is and wholeness better and safer to be born,
The greater or the lesser shall live,"

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When forty winters shall besiege thy brow
And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field,
Thy youth's proud livery, so gazed on now,
WINNER:
Will be a tattered weed of small worth held.
Then being asked where all thy beauty lies,
Where all the treasure of thy lusty days,
To say within thine own deep-sunken eyes
Were an all-eating shame and thriftless praise.
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use
If thou couldst answer "This fair child of mine
Shall sum my count and make my old excuse,"
Proving his beauty by succession thine.
This were to be new made when thou art old
And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold.
LOSER:
Of youthful glory at its light.
'The great world shall be consumed by the dust,' the poet writes
In a second age. Perhaps it has been for such short, and far-off, ages - that the reader knows how the sun in summer has changed for many years. It has had such a light of a hue and colour that the people knew not, or wanted - not for a generation; but they did know.
That this old age does the work of it - perhaps, perhaps, perhaps - as I was saying; that it is one of my favourite and truest friends that so has been so little explored that all those who come along for the record must understand what they have learned and know. I remember to tell that in another old story when the great fire grew from his ashes on the island of St. Bartholomew at Trenchville, "It was once called the "Holy House, with its stone roof, two rooms, a fine white wall in the centre, three columns at the far end of one wing, the other the roof, a magnificent marble table with great golden windows; the stone is the roof on one wing, and the roof in another."
What could it be, the poet suggests at present and to others who are now to follow - who will remember such







----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest
Now is the time that face should form another,
Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,
WINNER:
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
For where is she so fair whose uneared womb
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?
Or who is he so fond will be the tomb
Of his self-love, to stop posterity?
Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee
Calls back the lovely April of her prime;
So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
Despite of wrinkles, this thy golden time.
But if thou live remembered not to be,
Die single, and thine image dies with thee.
LOSER:
This time, as thou willest see to have done;
Then shall the soul come down like a stream into the river
Then the name he hath, which you behold to you will fade by me
Then the soul shalt return to thee again in time as of the moon-hast Thou art
Then the name his Lord his Son, who will be in Thy hand, and with him and with Him we will make
Here are thy names to this body, for I will call forth in him a prophet by His voice:
1 And thou shalt look in the midst of them which speak to him. For unto this is My sign by His Word that He hath spoken unto me
1 The name of the father the Lord, who hast hast promised Me, will take my finger, which Heareth not the hand to touch; 1 For it is with these
who do the bidding of My name, I tell them I stand
2 And this is to all which say to Him
Whereon I see with wonder: where is thy work, the work of an axe by its sound or

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Unthrifty loveliness, why dost thou spend
Upon thyself thy beauty's legacy?
Nature's bequest gives nothing but doth lend,
WINNER:
And being frank, she lends to those are free.
Then, beauteous niggard, why dost thou abuse
The bounteous largess given thee to give?
Profitless usurer, why dost thou use
So great a sum of sums yet canst not live?
For, having traffic with thyself alone,
Thou of thyself thy sweet self dost deceive.
Then how, when nature calls thee to be gone,
What acceptable audit canst thou leave?
Thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee,
Which used lives th' executor to be.
LOSER:
Of human flesh you are of human mould:
But on Earth, where thou art on earth
In its land is none thy kind's beauty.









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Those hours that with gentle work did frame
The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell
Will play the tyrants to the very same
WINNER:
And that unfair which fairly doth excel;
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness everywhere.
Then, were not summer's distillation left
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,
Nor it nor no remembrance what it was.
But flowers distilled, though they with winter meet,
Leese but their show; their substance still lives sweet.
LOSER:
man which
The man shall make His own master
The tyrant to the tyrant that would stand
Let me show
His way out from amongst us, for I do
As you know, through a well being
In my old heart and life.
Come hither and stand by my side in the midst,
If your old life
Do ever have patience to your past, or the present for any man
To live the better you've lived.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Then let not winter's ragged hand deface
In thee thy summer ere thou be distilled.
Make sweet some vial; treasure thou some place
WINNER:
With beauty's treasure ere it be self-killed.
That use is not forbidden usury
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
That's for thyself to breed another thee,
Or ten times happier, be it ten for one.
Ten times thyself were happier than thou art
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee;
Then what could death do if thou shouldst depart,
Leaving thee living in posterity?
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.
LOSER:
by fire. Thou mightest escape me from, or I will slay you with my own blade.
Ere thy spring thills fall I must return for thy life. But thou must have no better time of your life than these few hours and a dozen of sleep by that cold window, or that deep blue night. It will be you and it is thee you desire. I know your future, I know your dreams, the ways. Your dreams will be forever to me for a lifetime.
The young women will have a better and more pleasant view of their dream. But they will not hear from any woman so much as the maid-servant. "I'm going away," they sing, "without your maid," "you were lost, the poor girl's mother ran away and the maids had run away, and there was a cold dream, and the maids fled away too. All through the day they were weeping." When the maids came to her in the night. All the old people will see for themselves that you took that little man who is just coming out of the woods; that if she was just coming out from the kitchen or going upstairs they couldn't all have made this big joke, they will see you looking at him without the look. (See also The Fairy Tale by Arthur Scrant









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Lo, in the orient when the gracious light
Lifts up his burning head, each under eye
Doth homage to his new-appearing sight,
WINNER:
Serving with looks his sacred majesty;
And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
Resembling strong youth in his middle age,
Yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,
Attending on his golden pilgrimage.
But when from highmost pitch with weary car
Like feeble age he reeleth from the day,
The eyes, 'fore duteous, now converted are
From his low tract and look another way.
So thou, thyself outgoing in thy noon,
Unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.
LOSER:
the shining one? All with such
Lamorous eyes, that it might be with an all powerful
Exercise and a kind assurance of his newborn self. I love the Lord my King more now than I ever have loved him before and will cherish it
for ever for ever—for ever after my last child is born and is my daughter's name at my door! I love him for ever more
that I may be with him. Love not as I must it; I am ready to do it without ever needing the help or hope of any other man
in his time. No; no I know not how long I keep that life, I believe my God is not to be afraid to do him any harm except that may be done by
his kind-minded and pious will, for
for the sake of me—which should be impossible for anyone but God, who can be and love
him to me—he,
shall no doubt choose an answer, for his holy heart, so much as of any man to
me, who will love him as myself—he shall find this answer is as easy

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Music to hear, why hear'st thou music sadly?
Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy.
Why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
WINNER:
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
By unions married, do offend thine ear,
They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear.
Mark how one string, sweet husband to another,
Strikes each in each by mutual ordering,
Resembling sire and child and happy mother
Who, all in one, one pleasing note do sing;
Whose speechless song, being many, seeming one,
Sings this to thee: "Thou single wilt prove none."
LOSER:
the most joy to you and your child in thy hand; but as long as thou desire it, I, the Lord do, to make him more rejoice for thy sake when he may know more more of thy good than his own.
And when the sorrow thou canest hold is far from your child's; yet this it will be; though not it.
But thy desire shall have nothing to do with the sorrow: and what have they been when thou doest need not the pain and torment thou endure;
Nor the pity if we need the anger if we lack pain.
So much hath they gone without seeing; so far may you say that all the pain I had with you hath all the grief I ever had. [1623]
Away from thy child! now my hand shall never see, but thy arm may always make thee hear, as the Lord havest. But I say you have not the most joy in you from an accident which hath not come that is of you or your child.
And from a place as you have seen on your left hand; a place as you have felt upon your right; to find in your right hand my voice with the lips, and my hand, even on a wall, in a dream; in a





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye
That thou consum'st thyself in single life?
Ah, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
WINNER:
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will be thy widow and still weep
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
When every private widow well may keep,
By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind.
Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,
And, kept unused, the user so destroys it.
No love toward others in that bosom sits
That on himself such murd'rous shame commits.
LOSER:
nor will it seem to me
Brought from heaven. He that does such wonders in an idle hope that his life should be, yet he can never get to Heaven;
A man that knows that Heaven has given for him the immortality, or shall perish
A boy with the devil and an idol worshipping him, his wife is still bound to her home.
I do not hear of such a deed of yours, of course, to-day to anyone, that one could possibly
Divert the souls of your brethren from the devil. In that time he has a son.
Eighth.—I hear you say these three verses, which, though more like a sentence, yet are so much less
The following verses will tell you which way I stand in in writing this answer. My reply, if he be wise, to him for you may have none else, and may have the satisfaction that his answer can come at anything. No doubt. I have been doing his service by some work here or there. Now it is a question. Do my service? Do his help? You are all, and no question. A word as to that is true, for he hath a work on some question. Does it seem not right at the least for you—if at any other time be




----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
For shame deny that thou bear'st love to any,
Who for thyself art so unprovident.
Grant, if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
WINNER:
But that thou none lov'st is most evident.
For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate
That 'gainst thyself thou stick'st not to conspire,
Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
Which to repair should be thy chief desire.
O, change thy thought, that I may change my mind.
Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
Be as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
Or to thyself at least kind-hearted prove.
Make thee another self for love of me,
That beauty still may live in thine or thee.
LOSER:
A pure and pure God.
And for to hear her, go round that island,
In order that thou shouldest be free from pain.









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
As fast as thou shalt wane, so fast thou grow'st
In one of thine, from that which thou departest;
And that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow'st
WINNER:
Thou mayst call thine when thou from youth convertest.
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase;
Without this, folly, age, and cold decay.
If all were minded so, the times should cease,
And threescore year would make the world away.
Let those whom nature hath not made for store,
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish;
Look whom she best endowed she gave the more,
Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish.
She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby
Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.
LOSER:
upon thee. Amen."
Then at the beginning of every long time of his speech the man of God began repeating, And he began to speak as if in conversation of it
But after these times the man started to sing rather of speech as of other things.
He made no changes or alterations on occasion in the past; but when he was ready to begin again he had no choice but to give every part which He made a choice before this man commenced. So in every line from which he says that all things were created from him he seems to me to be in a great state of wonderment, as though to discover just how many times He has told that he has known many a thousand times His father,
And has shown, as he says, so many words;
So that He should say, He had such words that a little child would sing them,
And after which His father would sing all these verses;
"He will never live the last in vain; he knows not of how many his last life is
Before Him we believe our hearts in his commandments."
"Then do not tell them of your words so often; they only may say 'What is this God we profess?' but know that every single


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When I do count the clock that tells the time
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night,
When I behold the violet past prime
WINNER:
And sable curls all silvered o'er with white;
When lofty trees I see barren of leaves,
Which erst from heat did canopy the herd,
And summer's green all girded up in sheaves
Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard;
Then of thy beauty do I question make
That thou among the wastes of time must go,
Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake
And die as fast as they see others grow;
And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defense
Save breed, to brave him when he takes thee hence.
LOSER:
.
And though there be far-off flowers
Shaking at my hands and singing that my darling home
To the sweet grotesque of our mother on the north;
Thir flower has sung and spoken; though at that moment the moonbeams
Are far out over your pale moonbed; so to say, my darling, that is this? "We all sleep," they cry,
But for my beloved night is gone and there's never heard of the child,
And there there ain't a soul or a breath without all I love
Nor an expression upon the wall of the old city; and here that they were. But my little night is gone, and there doesn't know the morning's.
No, the girl there sleeps her heart round my heart's broken wheel;
And here a sweet voice from the little city

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O, that you were your self! But, love, you are
No longer yours than you yourself here live;
Against this coming end you should prepare,
WINNER:
And your sweet semblance to some other give.
So should that beauty which you hold in lease
Find no determination; then you were
Your self again after yourself's decease
When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.
Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
Which husbandry in honor might uphold
Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
And barren rage of death's eternal cold?
O, none but unthrifts, dear my love, you know.
You had a father; let your son say so.
LOSER:
so as not to find out a place by which any of the more common-
like-minded among you may go,
There may be a future there but as some a hundred years hence. Now behold a great
City which there had come with some men. Whence they arrived: this in my presence to
meet with me had been but too great a moment for me
The city was called 'Nest', and 'Old City', so the people knew
where their chief is from hence a name of theirs. That I now be-
[Page 14]*- that the gods I had told to come to pass were my own people in time of all good
will be for an immense sum of human labour which is only as much as this
I might ever get through my mind for having taken that first pleasure or feeling of something, for feeling the
need of that feeling in such an old man, nor for any cause but for, though such pleasure

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Not from the stars do I my judgment pluck,
And yet methinks I have astronomy--
But not to tell of good or evil luck,
WINNER:
Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality;
Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell,
Pointing to each his thunder, rain, and wind,
Or say with princes if it shall go well
By oft predict that I in heaven find.
But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,
And, constant stars, in them I read such art
As truth and beauty shall together thrive
If from thyself to store thou wouldst convert;
Or else of thee this I prognosticate:
Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.
LOSER:
In good or evil business-fare.
Tha boy in an oxen with gold and his father is,
Where he goes, from his farm or a great road
To get into the house, for if he comes
By the same road there is better fortune,
I can make for it more of it:
The man to whom I tell of good fortune should take,
As long as the men shall ask him to take it--
That is to me my great task of taking all
Of it.
Truly, indeed, when he hears

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When I consider everything that grows
Holds in perfection but a little moment,
That this huge stage presenteth nought but shows
WINNER:
Whereon the stars in secret influence comment;
When I perceive that men as plants increase,
Cheered and checked even by the selfsame sky,
Vaunt in their youthful sap, at height decrease,
And wear their brave state out of memory;
Then the conceit of this inconstant stay
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
Where wasteful Time debateth with Decay
To change your day of youth to sullied night;
And, all in war with Time for love of you,
As he takes from you, I engraft you new.
LOSER:
the world to be.
The song that my heart can't do without
I cannot take no words for
To be there that does my work.
"No more of things that will destroy," And those who know
What a life will save can find, I dare say "one" so many times.






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
But wherefore do not you a mightier way
Make war upon this bloody tyrant Time,
And fortify yourself in your decay
WINNER:
With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?
Now stand you on the top of happy hours,
And many maiden gardens, yet unset,
With virtuous wish would bear your living flowers,
Much liker than your painted counterfeit.
So should the lines of life that life repair
Which this time's pencil or my pupil pen
Neither in inward worth nor outward fair
Can make you live yourself in eyes of men.
To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
And you must live, drawn by your own sweet skill.
LOSER:
,
From whence it seems you may reach the final goal?
No, for you seek an evil from the midst,
That is yet vain
Against all that fear, till you see that you will see that it is
And is not for a mortal enemy to fear;
When for them too I do not see
Nor fear when, if a mortal be left here
In peace, for the day to come I shall set a world at rest
This world for an everlasting peace In the world of the dead that lie
Not one and all that love, either, though those of a noble and holy nature, may

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Who will believe my verse in time to come
If it were filled with your most high deserts?
Though yet, heaven knows, it is but as a tomb
WINNER:
Which hides your life and shows not half your parts.
If I could write the beauty of your eyes
And in fresh numbers number all your graces,
The age to come would say "This poet lies;
Such heavenly touches ne'er touched earthly faces."
So should my papers, yellowed with their age,
Be scorned, like old men of less truth than tongue,
And your true rights be termed a poet's rage
And stretched meter of an antique song.
But were some child of yours alive that time,
You should live twice--in it and in my rhyme.
LOSER:
. Amen
(I will quote Luke 3:26 and John 10:32). The fact of how the Scriptures were taught on this occasion was as much the evidence to all our doubters of the divine and worldly nature, as it was in our hearts to believe it for ever and ever!
The same thing seems true of many of Christ's miracles, as well in his miracles against evil persons, as his miracles at times like our Lord and Savior who appeared at Passover with the holy apostles in His own hand, at all times in person, and from the cross at Pasch and to our Lord and Jesus at St. Ignatius. When it has occurred to us as well when we should hold up God, by His resurrection, at such time as in the beginning we should think it a good idea to use Him we must always have faith: and, I pray your blessed brothers who work in our faith, you must continually have God present at our heads who has made the body and blood of Christ so good and worthy. We should have every other sign for it that our faith be made as it is, never, never to take away faith from Him, and be faithful, to take it for what is better; for in Christ Jesus has come from God through His flesh; Christ himself has been through









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
WINNER:
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor shall Death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,
When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st.
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.
LOSER:
Sweet dreams make you free to pursue the flowers
Among them a sweet flower and a sweet rose.
Wicked men can take any fruit, but not all good men take so much fruit.
You know how some men say to be loved only at last,
That I love you better I know how to love more than you,
That by my very love you should all be blessed by my loving you,
To go on singing forever singing of love from the heaven I hear.
The words come into the ears of my love who are far removed from the world around me;
I do the good of every man. What I must do.
To write to all the world, how much love for myself is it to do, I tell no self; for to know what the best friend to me has are not all I do, and what others have a bad life to offer you.
My dear friends, if only to feel myself as you do and have love of all

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Devouring Time, blunt thou the lion's paws
And make the Earth devour her own sweet brood;
Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,
WINNER:
And burn the long-lived phoenix in her blood;
Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet'st
And do whate'er thou wilt, swift-footed Time,
To the wide world and all her fading sweets.
But I forbid thee one most heinous crime:
O, carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen;
Him in thy course untainted do allow
For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.
Yet do thy worst, old Time; despite thy wrong,
My love shall in my verse ever live young.
LOSER:
And let her cry and plead in an empty chappell's blood! 'Twas one hour's life as mine and another half a day as mine. He must pay her every pound of her labour to feed her, and a thousand-gallon of water for the hungry beast is the end that ends mine! O king, thou canst make my queen pay to bear, if he please, for I will only have thee leave to hunt for me and her offspring! Give heed to what is a matter of principle, and thou shalt bear for the kingdom which I have, to bear on the gods who live in the air in search of my flesh and the fruit which I will give and take and harvest,
'twill die away in peace.' This last part is especially strange to you; it means that the other gods and men in the earth, with this last thing at heart, had all this of theirs and none other besides. 'Let's not do this again! It has gone and you shall surely know 'tis to die, if it should become a permanent death.' You think to yourself, O queen! the earth is not so short this month you've kept. A new kingdom is a whole month if it is to stay: in truth it always was! The queen has told you










----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
A woman's face with Nature's own hand painted
Hast thou, the master mistress of my passion;
A woman's gentle heart, but not acquainted
WINNER:
With shifting change, as is false women's fashion;
An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling,
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;
A man in hue all hues in his controlling,
Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
And for a woman wert thou first created,
Till Nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,
And by addition me of thee defeated
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
But since she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
Mine be thy love, and thy love's use their treasure.
LOSER:
with you,
A woman's warm head, she not knowe thy lust
She may feel thy power and lust
And hold your peace through all, but all,
This one hath her hand and heart full
And is well clothed to stand in the centre;;
This woman hath a hand of her own
Yet can no longer knowe her feelings;; the truth,
Is, thou do know no better hand of me; thy, that thou canst take the sword away;
To carry this lady over here into my hands, thou goest by by that other side; it was with thy master Mistress Helen (my servant in arms and my guest in bed). "Hie, dost it hurt?" said our Lord,
"It never could; my love does it; I give for thee love alone, thy, and mine; so thy own heart was with me on these points."

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
So is it not with me as with that muse
Stirred by a painted beauty to his verse,
Who heaven itself for ornament doth use
WINNER:
And every fair with his fair doth rehearse,
Making a couplement of proud compare
With sun and moon, with earth and sea's rich gems,
With April's firstborn flowers and all things rare
That heaven's air in this huge rondure hems.
O, let me, true in love, but truly write,
And then believe me, my love is as fair
As any mother's child, though not so bright
As those gold candles fixed in heaven's air.
Let them say more that like of hearsay well;
I will not praise that purpose not to sell.
LOSER:
,
So hath the art of sculpture its centre,
Thus have I come the masterly to his throne,
How shall he turn his glory back?
The master, too, has no answer—
I will put to work those beautiful parts of beauty for ornament.






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
My glass shall not persuade me I am old
So long as youth and thou are of one date,
But when in thee Time's furrows I behold,
WINNER:
Then look I death my days should expiate.
For all that beauty that doth cover thee
Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me;
How can I then be elder than thou art?
O, therefore, love, be of thyself so wary
As I not for myself but for thee will,
Bearing thy heart, which I will keep so chary
As tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
Presume not on thy heart when mine is slain.
Thou gav'st me thine not to give back again.
LOSER:












----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
As an unperfect actor on the stage
Who with his fear is put beside his part,
Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,
WINNER:
Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart;
So I for fear of trust forget to say
The perfect ceremony of love's rite,
And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,
O'ercharged with burden of mine own love's might.
O, let my books be then the eloquence
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
Who plead for love and look for recompense
More than that tongue that more hath more expressed.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.
LOSER:
I would find his side as ugly and cruel and hideous
There's been much debate concerning where to insert his arms,
When he seems like a man in all his selfless efforts.
Who has made him the face in all his good time.
He seems to have fallen a lonely tree or fallen from heaven. He doesn't belong
to our family yet...
He just likes this little boy
All those things that keep up his good hopes for the love...
Of which I will explain with tears;--I believe in him too; as much because I want to be able to show
That you look at me or watch that I like myself or do not mind, I cannot have this much of that...
I like and feel he is of the opposite gender because he likes her and thinks of his family or to have her in a place

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Mine eye hath played the painter and hath stelled
Thy beauty's form in table of my heart;
My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
WINNER:
And perspective it is best painter's art.
For through the painter must you see his skill
To find where your true image pictured lies,
Which in my bosom's shop is hanging still,
That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes.
Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done:
Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for me
Are windows to my breast, wherethrough the sun
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee.
Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art:
They draw but what they see, know not the heart.
LOSER:
and hath mould. "Bhiram" may also mean man; but when a word like that comes upon one's lips or says something of one kind that will make one speechless, this is hardly an offence in itself. The poet may seem to mean merely 'tis the man's appearance on the stage, for a man whose mind does not dwell upon what he says is not that which he really believes he means to describe. As a proverb said that man of whom I do say "who's got some form of form on it. It ain't as much good as if thou was a Manichæum like what I be called?" The use of his pronoun when the noun must be made an affirmative is very peculiar. But I will now turn now to the common practice at the present time where the subject or description of man does contain a definite meaning, and what we might say by "man" that man might speak, may be very different from the case. The very same example can be seen. I mean, that of Jodhata who was an Arahant like man (who also is Arahant like I), who was a prince who possessed his manhood and was at this stage in his great power being that of "the prince, king of the Brahmins" (as is











----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Let those who are in favor with their stars
Of public honor and proud titles boast,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
WINNER:
Unlooked for joy in that I honor most.
Great princes' favorites their fair leaves spread
But as the marigold at the sun's eye,
And in themselves their pride lies buried,
For at a frown they in their glory die.
The painful warrior famoused for worth,
After a thousand victories once foiled,
Is from the book of honor razed quite,
And all the rest forgot for which he toiled.
Then happy I, that love and am beloved
Where I may not remove nor be removed.
LOSER:
and will give, the great pleasure, for an,
Or a, but few, to be crowned a monarch:
For it is better to pass from heaven
By no great, by my, by one hundred
To pass, so long in shame's sleep:--so, while
That with so many people
Eighty millions
Aught to inherit, to take, to become,
From my crowning in so, great
A title.--
Thus in that day the world can not be satisfied or

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit,
To thee I send this written embassage
WINNER:
To witness duty, not to show my wit;
Duty so great, which wit so poor as mine
May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it,
But that I hope some good conceit of thine
In thy soul's thought, all naked, will bestow it;
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving
Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
And puts apparel on my tattered loving
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect.
Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.
LOSER:
of my soul.
To God be my mercy for them both--who will give to me,
Those which you see me with with.
1,749,799,000 4th May 1547 He entered a monastery of Chivalry, and received for the Lord the title of Saint and Duke of Suffolk.
The title given him on account of the power with which this title was bestowed from the Holy of Monasteries. To this day, by way of some extraordinary circumstances he, and all his officers; is sometimes called the Holy of the Monasteries; at times to have taken part in a large number of noble houses. During his residence and residence at Charming. He was born in France on 10th June, and at St. John Chrysostom he served as King-Chancellor. At last his great fortune was discovered through the assistance of Louis XV at this period of his country's progress, with the hope that he, though from thence abroad to Spain, may bring peace, would have had his title confirmed in Paris, of where he had always maintained great influence until the time of Charles XI himself. He is now the President of the University, the highest rank of this town. By his own authority, his principal residence was near this present Stirling, where this cathedral







----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,
The dear repose for limbs with travel tired,
But then begins a journey in my head
WINNER:
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
For then my thoughts, from far where I abide,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,
Looking on darkness which the blind do see;
Save that my soul's imaginary sight
Presents thy shadow to my sightless view,
Which like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
Lo, thus, by day my limbs, by night my mind,
For thee and for myself no quiet find.
LOSER:
I,
Like a maiden on some day I go to see this old old man,
After some years go down the coast
Wearing his life on their back as if it is one that lives a while.








----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
How can I then return in happy plight
That am debarred the benefit of rest,
When day's oppression is not eased by night,
WINNER:
But day by night and night by day oppressed;
And each, though enemies to either's reign,
Do in consent shake hands to torture me,
The one by toil, the other to complain
How far I toil, still farther off from thee?
I tell the day to please him thou art bright
And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven;
So flatter I the swart complexioned night,
When sparkling stars twire not, thou gild'st the even.
But day doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
And night doth nightly make grief's length seem stronger.
LOSER:
Thinking the earth as white,
A barren place for mankind? How shall you look? By the shade or light on the day
Whose long black eyes do the white look at? How may we understand his purpose?
With thy tears, thy prayers thou mightest help to ease thy weary souls
Thou knowest the cause of human misfortune... The sun or stars
He who hast not a care about his fate
Hath been so fair and the light shone.
When my soul has done with the sun's shining on my chest...
Thou shalt never suffer thine heart's doom in thy path.
Thou may be well; but when my soul bewail thou canst not help me.
When thou wast so cold thy body turned,

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
WINNER:
And look upon myself and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man's art and that man's scope,
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.
LOSER:
for my
part of thee all to keep from thy evil feet
As is the first and last time we lay there again;
For my brethren, to think that ye shall have all your shame to be, and you, by law,
The end of your life so as never have I seen;
But if ye are at last assured of your fair, innocent health,
And have yet to have hope of a blessed death so that you may
Have good fortune for the first time so that you may never leave our land,
By virtue of thy grace not only that it may be
Now that I think of having good fortunes to hold.
My wife hath a rich house now on my front porch, so let our fair

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When to the sessions of sweet silent thought
I summon up remembrance of things past,
I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought,
WINNER:
And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste;
Then can I drown an eye, unused to flow,
For precious friends hid in death's dateless night,
And weep afresh love's long since canceled woe,
And moan th' expense of many a vanished sight.
Then can I grieve at grievances foregone,
And heavily from woe to woe tell o'er
The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,
Which I new pay as if not paid before.
But if the while I think on thee, dear friend,
All losses are restored and sorrows end.
LOSER:
I speak for nothing on what is yet I can think about,
What now that a man can have nothing. (5-12) It was in his life his own that gave up the old world,
And it came down to my being alone in my own and, like so many things a wise spirit that must make use of his knowledge
I would never dare go down in life, but at the end of the day I want it
A place not to be put in the corner
But only one which might make use of his knowledge
He was one of those who did take the knowledge and the power
That gave me refuge and brought it about to the wise life, (13) and where all things do come about now are as they are, we will have their truth,
And no less wisdom for what a wise Spirit would offer from our own time
He who taught of all things should hold all things to be good so that no foolish person may presume. (14) It were that in these things would the Spirit live for those who had made love to you. (15) He gave for his glory that no little fellow may doubt and the wisdom to learn from.
And there we have gone forward with an image

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts
Which I by lacking have supposed dead,
And there reigns love and all love's loving parts,
WINNER:
And all those friends which I thought buried.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
As interest of the dead, which now appear
But things removed that hidden in thee lie.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
That due of many now is thine alone.
Their images I loved I view in thee,
And thou, all they, hast all the all of me.
LOSER:
that I never saw on
My own account, Or love's love can't be called happy;
Or my heart I call no comfort nor ease,
I'm sad it, sad as mine love are; For in their desire, of which I know it and will not change,
And it hath all their sweetness for my heart: The sweet bosom has no meaning till all my love die! But what is not of my love I will say: Love cannot help but grow as in grief. Let my soul call to myself: 'Bless the hearts, the poor the poor!' I take my hat; And when in this heart in my grief shall I rise; And so far as their hearts are like for in me; Where are I to find joy; They would not take care that this should be to their own good, and as no one is my Lord
So that when I have had heart-ache for many years there I am always in peace and sound mind
That by the power of grace that will never leave: the Holy Spirit may lift up all my spirit to their true goodness and happiness.
For for a soul such to receive my body must not find itself like one who has in it nothing. Therefore when the soul shall come back to me it must be from this source: for the light




----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
If thou survive my well-contented day
When that churl Death my bones with dust shall cover,
And shalt by fortune once more resurvey
WINNER:
These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover,
Compare them with the bett'ring of the time,
And though they be outstripped by every pen,
Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,
Exceeded by the height of happier men.
O, then vouchsafe me but this loving thought:
"Had my friend's muse grown with this growing age,
A dearer birth than this his love had brought
To march in ranks of better equipage.
But since he died and poets better prove,
Theirs for their style I'll read, his for his love."
LOSER:
me from my pit of youth;
That I should make a glorious land upon that very river,
That, not knowing me, might yet rise up like the clouds over it;
That there should arise from him, out of heaven that I should rise,
Who must in that night, through the depths of the lake, I say I should raise:
In my flesh I said unto thee, O God, Lord that which you grant me, be strong
Upon the whole that which a young lad is a prisoner by that he who lies among thee;
His hair shall be cut down upon the head upon whom thou spake.
And with thee, O God, the head of the whole land, and the head of the whole tribe shall, on every level of every great land,
And they shall lay no doubt whatever upon his head: it shall have him, not that who lives through fear of him, but that
and he of his own will in his own name he give you.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Full many a glorious morning have I seen
Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,
Kissing with golden face the meadows green,
WINNER:
Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy,
Anon permit the basest clouds to ride
With ugly rack on his celestial face,
And from the forlorn world his visage hide,
Stealing unseen to west with this disgrace.
Even so my sun one early morn did shine
With all-triumphant splendor on my brow,
But, out alack, he was but one hour mine;
The region cloud hath masked him from me now.
Yet him for this my love no whit disdaineth;
Suns of the world may stain when heaven's sun staineth.
LOSER:
That are of green and yellow flower, which bloom through every day.
Then is dawning all round the face of this valley,
Kiss in delight, for behold they pass over our great house with them.
"This great building the house of St. Bernard has been in the court of St. Mary for eight hundred yeare and four thousand yeare,"
Thus says the bishop, a great building built for this lord of Christ for His Church of Christ:
[T]he hall is a spacious palace, and is spacious in beauty for the great Lord He in the world. So let His saints walk there in the open house of faith in Jesus our Savior of the world in their arms;
[T]he first dwelling, or Church or House of Refuge, or holy temple, is built with golden walls,
Kills no great people and does not do good good, to all who hear this way. Then there is there a high garden which fills them with a wonderful air, where are made of the flowers in purple or the green that grow as white as day and grow white or purple,
[I]pheos that is, for these flowers I will bring the sun of good grace. Here we saw it come to me that you were a good judge not what is wrong and in righteousness



----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Why didst thou promise such a beauteous day
And make me travel forth without my cloak,
To let base clouds o'ertake me in my way,
WINNER:
Hiding thy brav'ry in their rotten smoke?
'Tis not enough that through the cloud thou break
To dry the rain on my storm-beaten face,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss.
Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offense's cross.
Ah, but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
And they are rich and ransom all ill deeds.
LOSER:
Til thou then was a rich fellow: I was well in peace.











----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
No more be grieved at that which thou hast done.
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud;
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,
WINNER:
And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
All men make faults, and even I in this,
Authorizing thy trespass with compare,
Myself corrupting salving thy amiss,
Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are.
For to thy sensual fault I bring in sense--
Thy adverse party is thy advocate--
And 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence.
Such civil war is in my love and hate
That I an accessary needs must be
To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.
LOSER:
The pale light of the gods;
A flame rises out of the midst of clouds,
A flame in the clouds quivers it;
An earth rises out of water which flows like a river,
It grows thick on every one's bones and leaves all over. 
So, this means, it comes about from God having a heart to heal wounds and provide food, while he leaves his wife to his children. 
It can only arise if we follow Him Who brought our wounds with our bodies or atone by forgiving those who were truly our enemy in the first place. 
In reality, the world was full of these monsters, not merely bad men who didn't realize their nature was evil in their heart but also who did just about no good at all, and were just as dangerous to Jesus, his people and even Israel (Isaiah 44) on more recent occasions. The Jews were not just doing some form of cleansing against these other villains, they were actually doing great work doing so by cleansing themselves of these sins (Gal 1:14–35; also Psalm 11:28; 3 Ne 15:8 ). Jesus taught of one way to deal with demons. The "good is from a bad spirit," Jesus wrote, where evil, like evil, is a




----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Let me confess that we two must be twain
Although our undivided loves are one;
So shall those blots that do with me remain,
WINNER:
Without thy help, by me be borne alone.
In our two loves there is but one respect,
Though in our lives a separable spite,
Which though it alter not love's sole effect,
Yet doth it steal sweet hours from love's delight.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
But do not so. I love thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
LOSER:
to wit:
In any one or two we do it,
Or two, each one our love in turn we do
Though our affection be no more so. If one of us is willing or inclined to help
But the other does in no way agree on how it is, I will go
On,
That our affection, whether we are of or not, is not only good; or,
That that passion that is to be so strongly in my heart and in my heart
A great love, that one loves by their own, in a loving God
We must then leave, or shall be made for each other, in those things that he do best
To think, he would understand it to be a true answer; we should let the other go

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
As a decrepit father takes delight
To see his active child do deeds of youth,
So I, made lame by fortune's dearest spite,
WINNER:
Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Or any of these all, or all, or more,
Entitled in thy parts do crowned sit,
I make my love engrafted to this store.
So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised
Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give
That I in thy abundance am sufficed
And by a part of all thy glory live.
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee.
This wish I have, then ten times happy me.
LOSER:
I've done no little for any of you, but the first thing that I did ask,
Why did I fail?
For God, why are there a curse? The evil one and those which keep
On my life by my name, have done what thou wanteth not; but the Lord is good to take,
To save me from any thing good or bad; so all these sins can vanish from my flesh.
In other words;
God that art like me that keeps His name; God that liveth for what ever it will.
Who gives what it pleases? To whom can we give,
The only Son that may rise up with thy Spirit to bless thy life,
Where thou beest thy life, thy soul, thy name, thy love, thy righteousness, thy faith—even a name which in your eyes, by thee,
And whence hast thou put off? I see the Son now, whose name has not the one that thou,

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
How can my muse want subject to invent
While thou dost breathe that pour'st into my verse
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent
WINNER:
For every vulgar paper to rehearse?
O, give thyself the thanks if aught in me
Worthy perusal stand against thy sight,
For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee
When thou thyself dost give invention light?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
If my slight muse do please these curious days,
The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.
LOSER:
for me.
In order I must write: to me you are vain that are too lowly for you.










----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O, how thy worth with manners may I sing
When thou art all the better part of me?
What can mine own praise to mine own self bring,
WINNER:
And what is 't but mine own when I praise thee?
Even for this let us divided live
And our dear love lose name of single one,
That by this separation I may give
That due to thee which thou deserv'st alone.
O absence, what a torment wouldst thou prove
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive,
And that thou teachest how to make one twain
By praising him here who doth hence remain.
LOSER:
All that's left to say about thee? Or more like.
You'll never tell to me, O God! but that's what I would want to hear thee cry.—Hallelujah, amen!
Davides:
Oh, Daedra would see me; Davides would love that! He had told him,
And the answer for that one to think with:
There you are, you wicked fool and fool, that dote
O thee so good by your side, Dafni-du
Oh, a woman in a great company of witches and wizards;
Or one of the very last dents that a witch might
Tend to throw—what dite I give her here?"—The wisest lady that dines
On these doth most dainty a daughter,

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Take all my loves, my love, yea, take them all.
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call;
WINNER:
All mine was thine before thou hadst this more.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my love thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.
LOSER:
Then have the words of this verse, of thy holy book.











----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Those pretty wrongs that liberty commits
When I am sometime absent from thy heart,
Thy beauty and thy years full well befits,
WINNER:
For still temptation follows where thou art.
Gentle thou art, and therefore to be won;
Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed;
And when a woman woos, what woman's son
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed?
Ay me, but yet thou mightst my seat forbear,
And chide thy beauty and thy straying youth,
Who lead thee in their riot even there
Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth:
Hers, by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
Thine, by thy beauty being false to me.
LOSER:
Thy countenance aflame with tears.
Thy beauty and his years fine to wear,
My heart's aflame. That's it, now go with the
Seed. Go to thy house to my good. Be your mother thy husband. Now now be with him.
Be yours always for my sake. Make of thee, O house! My good mother that shall love me
And come unto thy door to make of me
And unto thy house. The way must seem as if that man and he,
But he know thou will I not be.
Give thy daughter to her friend thyself, O wife, if she will do
But take all that she may offer me,
If we are not reconciled to your cause in a day!

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
That thou hast her, it is not all my grief,
And yet it may be said I loved her dearly;
That she hath thee is of my wailing chief,
WINNER:
A loss in love that touches me more nearly.
Loving offenders, thus I will excuse ye:
Thou dost love her because thou know'st I love her,
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
Suff'ring my friend for my sake to approve her.
If I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss;
Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
And both for my sake lay on me this cross.
But here's the joy: my friend and I are one;
Sweet flattery! then she loves but me alone.
LOSER:
The cause which I laid hold for her that never went before,
Was she an idle slave, or was she the servant of fate?,
She knew of my sorrow, and told me how my heart was with thee;
The sorrow from her soul went back,
That when thou loved most, she did her justice.
She will not be a burden to the poor, her lord or his country,
Where there shall be trouble which might take it back; I loved thy love. My heart for me was so small, and there was so much sorrow. Thy brother and I. And they saw a great land full of rich persons,
The great land, and gave it back in many parts to the inhabitants,
They sent in their herdsmen, and brought home corn and wheat; and this brought them even much in the world.
But what can be more lamentable now of our Lord's sufferings, than he gave my heart so greatly as to love that he might have more? And though he did in the beginning, yet as a reward they had nothing done with his heart of their own free heart;
A blessing brought them, and the Lord did as he would of his goodness; for he told us that he had love in our bodies. "My son hath

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When most I wink, then do mine eyes best see,
For all the day they view things unrespected;
But when I sleep, in dreams they look on thee
WINNER:
And, darkly bright, are bright in dark directed.
Then thou whose shadow shadows doth make bright,
How would thy shadow's form form happy show
To the clear day with thy much clearer light
When to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!
How would, I say, mine eyes be blessed made
By looking on thee in the living day,
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth stay!
All days are nights to see till I see thee,
And nights bright days when dreams do show thee me.
LOSER:
,
The night in their dreams.
[1612 -1613] Now it follows where she goes. This was written about the old king. "A strange woman, like thee," he wrote "was made king of Persia."
So they say: that's what happens in all these places,—some time's a while, some other kind of power,
As though they were made king of one of the people, or something, the people are supposed to obey to, or not obey, when they're not around, or are asleep. That'd only lead back an angry old man about to give his wife something, too: or rather there were none of those men here, after all. Of course it'd do to do something on earth. Or perhaps that thing was said by the woman. I don't know:
How far her people'd come out of that state,—but let us get away with it for awhile;
But not too soon as it would seem. A few days they wouldn't stay to make sure he's there after he's gone through all the years. And yet in many of them it seems like some good, like some good, kind kind of thing. As one sort of thing, or some kind of thing to have been, or





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,
Injurious distance should not stop my way,
For then, despite of space, I would be brought
WINNER:
From limits far remote, where thou dost stay.
No matter then although my foot did stand
Upon the farthest earth removed from thee,
For nimble thought can jump both sea and land
As soon as think the place where he would be.
But, ah, thought kills me that I am not thought,
To leap large lengths of miles when thou art gone,
But that, so much of earth and water wrought,
I must attend time's leisure with my moan;
Receiving nought by elements so slow
But heavy tears, badges of either's woe.
LOSER:
here with the
Alliance's forces with
Held here with the
Of all the enemies who dare assail me. For now
I will be in that place with only his
But he with all others with his
One with all the foes: in whose presence I will fight... (to the
Olingent). (Loud moaning: As you hear) My dear brothers and brothers of me;
Come here again, when one of them, and to him my beloved;
Who is so great a God of this world and in this world...
If all are in our sight it seems obvious; there is not one. What shall I pray for now

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
The other two, slight air and purging fire,
Are both with thee, wherever I abide;
The first my thought, the other my desire,
WINNER:
These present-absent with swift motion slide.
For when these quicker elements are gone
In tender embassy of love to thee,
My life, being made of four, with two alone
Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy;
Until life's composition be recured
By those swift messengers returned from thee,
Who even but now come back again, assured
Of thy fair health, recounting it to me.
This told, I joy; but then, no longer glad,
I send them back again and straight grow sad.
LOSER:
and then, the second, with a feeling on the body, (this is when in the last second to me I find, the feeling in one place in the others to be in the other in other places.)—this feeling is so long that it must be in my first place and on any body which will do the work; it means then that, when one of my thoughts goes for the body in order to help them with it and I take notice of that place, there is no need; not once at all and as a matter of fact the body is only waiting. But this feeling, it is true, does no more when I know I can get this body so, but then that same day it may go, for I am yet with some one who makes such a strong demand on it by making the demand as it is, as far as I can get and I know from experience, which has shown to be one place in mine that is willing or unable to take and use, and on the other with another on being able because his first idea about taking the body goes on the one day (for his first idea would come from not being satisfied yet with the other by having received their ideas to use in other directions from the one. But on the third one for this I cannot find the need), (as I











----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war
How to divide the conquest of thy sight.
Mine eye my heart thy picture's sight would bar,
WINNER:
My heart mine eye the freedom of that right.
My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes;
But the defendant doth that plea deny,
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
To 'cide this title is impaneled
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
And by their verdict is determined
The clear eyes' moiety and the dear heart's part,
As thus: mine eyes' due is thy outward part,
And my heart's right, thy inward love of heart.
LOSER:
thy breath may hold, my heart thy heart can sing. All this makes mine eyes shine and your soul to shine, to burn, and to stir them;
All mine eyes make my soul sing and my soul to spark, to cry out. Mine blood gives forth, mine blood is a burning sword--in the end it will come and destroy my eyes and I will be like an elephant. What's that to you when you're crying to make it happen in an age without one and then you're just too slow so you think the time has come for you to talk. Let me ask you this again. It seems easy but you've grown accustomed to talking. You're too big and big your legs should be in perfect place at least you have an ear. Your legs would hurt, a bit they'd need stitches to fix the broken leg now I don't think that needs that right. A good way forward but in time they'll be needed. How to build and do that at some point. It will go all right. How often can it be done after we work together on it then before we give it a try when we come, not as one thing, no more than part at some point. It's not easy on those who don't need us. And that's one way of telling it to them, and










----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
And each doth good turns now unto the other.
When that mine eye is famished for a look,
WINNER:
Or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For thou no farther than my thoughts canst move,
And I am still with them, and they with thee;
Or, if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.
LOSER:
And its head is gone to bed, my dear little eyes make way unto us:
O what was the name unto my eye then when I knew it? I was no more than an ointment: and it had taken its own turn unto my side:
Then, then, and by which do we take my side for ever and all my fortune: so I am but a young bird upon water, that has no name to fly for ever; for even the name that my heart says he who stands among you says he that comes, the Lord, whose power will come upon his body in the world,
Then there were then but so many men who would call me the Lord,
When they would send a letter of a poor and weak soul;
Or my mother's word she sent to an oat she saw, that was in good condition;
It has come to be of very good nature, when her name is sent up to many people;
Yet, behold, he is in a great strait: and for his work she sends this letter in a day and place to the Lord, who is with him upon a mighty day: who, seeing what good might he accomplish, and looking how his son so might in those days,
They call her the Word of God



----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
How careful was I, when I took my way,
Each trifle under truest bars to thrust,
That to my use it might unused stay
WINNER:
From hands of falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
Thou best of dearest and mine only care
Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part;
And even thence thou wilt be stol'n, I fear,
For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.
LOSER:
,
By those at right at bottom, and in me of many other.
CHAPTER V.
The Folly or the Pestilence of Truth?
When we find that a multitude has had so numerous liberties laid down,
If a good woman may not say, her handmaid hath taken that other to,
That the lady's life at Rome. Then would not that make it so to them in;
I mean from their other way of going by, till her last hope? That should the case; and what did she do at the time,
The way home we made, without the same help? So let a lady of that manner be in to that thing. For then there is to find if a lady could not to be a husband. But here we see, this case does go as a far and may proceed at the best, as having one's liberty laid
Thereon would, had it not taken up again, had our poor mistress brought it from to our house. So, with their help they turned and did get home. I was in very good health for all night, when we got back, and began on to some other things, which, when first we got together with them, were, the best-kept of all our present possessions


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Against that time, if ever that time come,
When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
Whenas thy love hath cast his utmost sum,
WINNER:
Called to that audit by advised respects;
Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass
And scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye,
When love, converted from the thing it was,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
Against that time do I ensconce me here
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
And this my hand against myself uprear
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part.
To leave poor me thou hast the strength of laws,
Since why to love I can allege no cause.
LOSER:
Truly with all his life I have never to hear;
For this day's great trial was fought in vain. (Voyages & Conquests.)
As soon as I was done writing up a sermon and my time came upon me to write it, the devil sat himself down beside me; I could not contain him; and his eyes were darkened with rage, (with what an eye I was to see, I cannot speak.) So the devil made me sit up, my clothes torn down as to save them both as he laid their heads low in front of me as he gave us some more words about my virtues before I should enter into his office, and at this very moment the devil's lips parted and trembled. (On Prostration.)
My whole world will not cease then as though I had died as in heaven (at the very moment that I heard it), so that when I came nearer, in a way that must appear great, and before my whole heart did shake: thus I say my end; there will come forth from the bottom (on earth) such a glory—a perfect joy or happiness in which, from all the glory that lies around, the soul may feel itself to be strong and strong; while my eyes go a little slack in some direction to see whether such








----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
How heavy do I journey on the way,
When what I seek, my weary travel's end,
Doth teach that ease and that repose to say
WINNER:
"Thus far the miles are measured from thy friend."
The beast that bears me, tired with my woe,
Plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,
As if by some instinct the wretch did know
His rider loved not speed, being made from thee.
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,
Which heavily he answers with a groan,
More sharp to me than spurring to his side;
For that same groan doth put this in my mind:
My grief lies onward and my joy behind.
LOSER:
and do things of the Lord,And not let one come into my world." 1 In one instance of his disciples saying something which was very interesting, some part were said, 'Come to me and I will come to you.' " In the same way one of Jesus's own disciples said it to the disciples of the Nazareth,
"Where thou mayest not, ye see." 'But' this, in the way, 'I'll teach thee what I should teach him,' he said unto them." When he had said this he did not see him. As one of them so put it he went up, and came up as far as to his feet, where was not the door between them. One of those things, and thus he spoke his things at that point. (4)
CHAPTER 4 -- BREADY ME, WHICH BIBLE IS ONE WHO WAS KNOWN, SAME STILL, AND WHO KNEW BY HIS SIX YEARS, EVEN WHEN ONE PLANNED FROM HIS SAME TIME BY EYE. One's life can be defined by his SIX YEARS before the life of Jesus. And we can give many names to this great writer. (We may, in some sense, make the statement with respect to his writing by one who lived, or a different writer









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Thus can my love excuse the slow offense
Of my dull bearer when from thee I speed:
From where thou art, why should I haste me thence?
WINNER:
Till I return, of posting is no need.
O, what excuse will my poor beast then find
When swift extremity can seem but slow?
Then should I spur, though mounted on the wind;
In winged speed no motion shall I know.
Then can no horse with my desire keep pace;
Therefore desire, of perfect'st love being made,
Shall neigh no dull flesh in his fiery race.
But love for love thus shall excuse my jade:
"Since from thee going he went willful slow,
Towards thee I'll run, and give him leave to go."
LOSER:
So the more you learn my voice
To sing; yet more I'll sing you more: my voice be the same
I shall teach thee more: I shall teach thou more
So shall I teach you more!
Tou shalt have a voice too great to endure: thy own hand cannot stop him: for the one which would end this madness
That might have slain them will sing me his own death:
But thou dost hear my song and see the same: what shall I say
How shall they sing when my name have thou slain the enemy; their song shall never cease there.
Now there are in their heart an opening, who in thy right hand draweth thee
And hear the music from among them a shout that beareth no sound on a deep land.
Thou shalt see the one at thy right hand the last with its sound of melody, and thou that thine last have not spoken that.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
So am I as the rich whose blessed key
Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
The which he will not ev'ry hour survey,
WINNER:
For blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
Therefore are feasts so solemn and so rare,
Since seldom coming in the long year set,
Like stones of worth they thinly placed are,
Or captain jewels in the carcanet.
So is the time that keeps you as my chest,
Or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide
To make some special instant special blessed
By new unfolding his imprisoned pride.
Blessed are you whose worthiness gives scope,
Being had, to triumph, being lacked, to hope.
LOSER:
In the name of a pure gold, The notr like that, 'Vyghdr' of my heart. What can a man of his will in his own time or age do
As we see in him in his youth,
The more his soul dwells deep, The better will he get his body round.
How is she not the same as we do and not as he may?
If this young beggar is no more nor ever so old, she is already rich
Of all our wealth.
We know not how to find a good old girl or rich man
Who will live any greater age at hand than she was;
Where's no good wife better, whose heart's sweetest heart?
She should stay still but I never told the lady her house's name,
The rich woman should have a wife like my brother in her own time. "We shall live by this age as long as she was her slave;

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
What is your substance, whereof are you made,
That millions of strange shadows on you tend?
Since everyone hath, every one, one shade,
WINNER:
And you, but one, can every shadow lend.
Describe Adonis, and the counterfeit
Is poorly imitated after you;
On Helen's cheek all art of beauty set,
And you in Grecian tires are painted new.
Speak of the spring and foison of the year;
The one doth shadow of your beauty show,
The other as your bounty doth appear,
And you in every blessed shape we know.
In all external grace you have some part,
But you like none, none you, for constant heart.
LOSER:
one light that is hidden under their own eyelid,
What shall it please my lord, who is God ?
I will teach thee not another way, what is yours but what I shall say.
Thou mustest have heard him tell me. Who hath told thee who hath made, when, whence, wherein ye were taken for?
The Lord was in a garden, wherein is one tree of thy choosing, two others for a man;
In which is one seed that grows in many, several leaves of grass;
In the garden thereof hath every tree which shall ever be with thee, but the tree of thy choosing
which shall always live is one with thee and not in an empty space;
There are also among you innumerable strange light spirits. Let us say it.
What an infinite variety, for what could be without, the power to have one's thoughts with a light.
The man upon whom was an infinite variety was a perfect variety; his power to be had not ceased, not extinguished; he existed on account of his power.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O, how much more doth beauty beauteous seem
By that sweet ornament which truth doth give.
The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
WINNER:
For that sweet odor which doth in it live.
The canker blooms have full as deep a dye
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly
When summer's breath their masked buds discloses;
But, for their virtue only is their show,
They live unwooed and unrespected fade,
Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so;
Of their sweet deaths are sweetest odors made.
And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
When that shall vade, by verse distils your truth.
LOSER:
doth make it;
But who should say, "Mare," say I," that the fair is not much prettier than this;
We should make this fairer it can be if we daren the beauty.
And that good flower, which our fancy so long has darted
From heaven over our minds we were once of an age.
And yet with great vanity. And we be of late dont see, for it is no use till you give a good idea, but in vain.
And now of this beauty we go up to a certain place in heaven.
No sooner was it heard by you a hundred years than the word comes down; And if the people hear it they think that it doth a good thing, but they can never understand it.
And when I was on the first night of my father's marriage,
There happened to my parents and cousins being gone to see, But when they came to see, they would do nothing for their father and his sister's marriage; Therefore it did not end well for them, for for two generations I saw their parents as we should have had them have been born, for I saw some old men going out to ask what it was that I did not know, they said my father's father died before the


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Not marble nor the gilded monuments
Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme,
But you shall shine more bright in these contents
WINNER:
Than unswept stone besmeared with sluttish time.
When wasteful war shall statues overturn,
And broils root out the work of masonry,
Nor Mars his sword nor war's quick fire shall burn
The living record of your memory.
'Gainst death and all oblivious enmity
Shall you pace forth; your praise shall still find room
Even in the eyes of all posterity
That wear this world out to the ending doom.
So, till the judgment that yourself arise,
You live in this, and dwell in lovers' eyes.
LOSER:
,
In this poem; so may I show a better face
Of glory and mystery and triumph.









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Sweet love, renew thy force. Be it not said
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,
Which but today by feeding is allayed,
WINNER:
Tomorrow sharpened in his former might.
So, love, be thou. Although today thou fill
Thy hungry eyes even till they wink with fullness,
Tomorrow see again, and do not kill
The spirit of love with a perpetual dullness.
Let this sad int'rim like the ocean be
Which parts the shore where two contracted new
Come daily to the banks, that, when they see
Return of love, more blessed may be the view.
Or call it winter, which being full of care
Makes summer's welcome, thrice more wished, more rare.
LOSER:
I will hear thy sayings. This was said after a long period of being absent from the Church, when her father went back to Rome .
. While I was here for six nights a day we sent letters from her (p. 397), her brother (p. 384), and from her, who was a faithful Christian. I knew she would see me and I knew he would.
It was not till late February, a good many days in the course of my absence (i.e. before our time) that she knew of the fact that Pope Paul VI was in Germany where I would be doing many interviews with her, but it seems there seemed to be much to this fact from that time of absence so long. A great deal of thought and conversation went into giving such things for us missionaries for our mission, which was quite a process indeed and so we sent for her (p. 398); one of us was called after her so that she could give me a translation. This was as it were very difficult to carry on her missionary work, especially as she came from England at three in the afternoon. This was so that I should not take my leave with any missionary.
When her sisters became our second missionaries, we wrote out some letters and wrote, some more, in their








----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Being your slave, what should I do but tend
Upon the hours and times of your desire?
I have no precious time at all to spend
WINNER:
Nor services to do till you require.
Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour
Whilst I, my sovereign, watch the clock for you,
Nor think the bitterness of absence sour
When you have bid your servant once adieu.
Nor dare I question with my jealous thought
Where you may be, or your affairs suppose,
But, like a sad slave, stay and think of nought
Save where you are how happy you make those.
So true a fool is love that in your will,
Though you do anything, he thinks no ill.
LOSER:
Upon you one or several months at a time;
With all your exertion in one respect; with your labor to perfection; with your efforts
But when at last, inasmuch as the Lord gives you no time on which to work
And by one or a few more I shall make use
It appears upon me to a stranger in the shape of my self to know how
I am able
On your day you cannot be able;
Now by the work that I give You
You need not rely solely on myself, or rely on me for inspiration:
For, you were not without labor. So be content with life to
By labor I am free, but I still hold for all I seek, and you to know I. And how do you make the distinction between an end to labor and, you understand, freedom from work? Do you know how the workman has the freedom of labor, or laborlessness as to what he shall labor for? Then will the worksman never be free, because they will be given to those whom he pleases. Or, do you need no labour to produce something, merely work with that which you desired. If they think it necessary not work upon Him but to labor and become masters or possessors of that kind, does God need not make no other distinction from

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
That god forbid, that made me first your slave,
I should in thought control your times of pleasure,
Or at your hand th' account of hours to crave,
WINNER:
Being your vassal bound to stay your leisure.
O, let me suffer, being at your beck,
Th' imprisoned absence of your liberty,
And patience, tame to sufferance, bide each check
Without accusing you of injury.
Be where you list, your charter is so strong
That you yourself may privilege your time
To what you will; to you it doth belong
Yourself to pardon of self-doing crime.
I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
Not blame your pleasure, be it ill or well.
LOSER:
As for another who comes from behind my backs,
In like measure I will have to leave behind you some form, of what you see of my own head,
There are no two. This I desire: you, who, I beg and command the god that hath left the land unto himself, I will use it as I've made it from among thee and all his animals;
To be not only one, and to be free, and to make and keep man my wife (and also all things of one nature as well, so be it). The other gods I see in this man's presence are all their servants, those who dwell amongst you.
And now come up at my gates to my presence, and let me have the first offering, as this must seem the least to any who follow God Himself when he first arrived here. I will then go forward (after what) I said, and make you your partner;
To bring it in and out and make use of it; To put it to use and so forth."
And behold, as I drew it back, one of them sat upon a seat in one of my steps, with his foot laid back under his lap to give a sign that He Himself would be in prayer as soon as I could. "He does the





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
If there be nothing new, but that which is
Hath been before, how are our brains beguiled,
Which, laboring for invention, bear amiss
WINNER:
The second burden of a former child.
O, that record could with a backward look,
Even of five hundred courses of the sun,
Show me your image in some antique book,
Since mind at first in character was done,
That I might see what the old world could say
To this composed wonder of your frame;
Whether we are mended, or whe'er better they,
Or whether revolution be the same.
O, sure I am the wits of former days
To subjects worse have given admiring praise.
LOSER:
; we look
At the two that have had their limbs made fit? No! They who are not of our
mind
Can conceive it will, at length, the day after, at a period, as to all our own thoughts. Thus they go down
When they come here in ignorance,
They find this thing is not very well received; this, the mind's chief difficulty to explain it in, and which is perhaps, but there were other explanations available of the mental nature of human being for these sorts of reasons or that in relation to which in fact no thing more particularly or more than that it must be, if anything at all as they understood how a consciousness ought not always, to be created from an individuation with itself: if not here it can be created, as here, but more and better to be there, to arise in a more complete being then those two or whatever that appear in nature, to exist and then fall back on the ground from which all being is produced, so that these two that are of their mind, can at some moment, and do continue to exist on another's consciousness. (These latter have, in reality of old, been thought that, to-day, only by an attempt at reversion to an already existing sense of






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
So do our minutes hasten to their end,
Each changing place with that which goes before;
WINNER:
In sequent toil all forwards do contend.
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
Crooked eclipses 'gainst his glory fight,
And Time that gave doth now his gift confound.
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,
Feeds on the rarities of Nature's truth,
And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.
And yet to times in hope my verse shall stand,
Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.
LOSER:
And now at noon's time I have been to town.
And after they have passed their time past,
That I never to see any longer to call to me
Their words; nor have I met all this day, so my heart trembles.
That I have not, but, with this sigh,
There now I have that little child I called,
My child who by his name is now called,
This little girl. Her head has set, she looks upon you, and we look over.
The child whose name I have never to think on.
That she can say or think that is all.
Let me go home again with her, I promise; whereupon there is your return too, for I must give thee a head here,

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Is it thy will thy image should keep open
My heavy eyelids to the weary night?
Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken
WINNER:
While shadows like to thee do mock my sight?
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
So far from home into my deeds to pry,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
O, no. Thy love, though much, is not so great.
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat
To play the watchman ever for thy sake.
For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
From me far off, with others all too near.
LOSER:
?I am sick of the pleasures
My body is like unto the weary of days.
In sorrow shall it fail, thy face that burns?
Is life's rest no wonder then?Where and if there is sorrow, when there isn't life's end?Where it isn't joy, what delight it brings
I should go and speak with my life
To make a peace so strong as the night.Oh I would love thee with a sword.Why do the heart rejoice but the heart fail
Where I think the heart to know its nature yet?In sorrow will no delight or power flow
Yet on this point of time I love myself and hope thee will not suffer for me yet
How thou shouldst live this long life till my soul does?How should it be a while before he does!All amiable is he my friend, for it is my hope.How dost thou do my love endure the whole of thy love?By the way are I to be my friends and guide thee with a sword
Now that my body and my hope are fulfilled
My heart cannot withstand death yet in the way Thou hadst promised it

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye
And all my soul and all my every part;
And for this sin there is no remedy,
WINNER:
It is so grounded inward in my heart.
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
No shape so true, no truth of such account,
And for myself mine own worth do define
As I all other in all worths surmount.
But when my glass shows me myself indeed
Beated and chopped with tanned antiquity,
Mine own self-love quite contrary I read;
Self so self-loving were iniquity.
'Tis thee, myself, that for myself I praise,
Painting my age with beauty of thy days.
LOSER:
neither may my Lord, forgive me
But God forgive, for that I shall live;
Then Jesus shall see his Father through all, and his Son after my,
And the world's in all to see him.
JESUS OF PRAYER 2nd Century B.C."The Son that beareth the faith shall rise
And sing unto all nations, that the gospel which is written before the face of it which says "Thou shalt not eat of my flesh," will enter that tabernacle of the kingdom of heaven:" (Mark 10:30-35)
THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD 2nd century B.C., when Peter became King of the Christian world and he was very old, his first question came to Peter. How do you answer that question when Jesus Christ did die, "Thou art dead and defiled"? (James 4:11-13) In a later sermon Paul said this: "So now come to me," answered the Son that beareth his life to live and sing to all, "Thou shalt not eat any thing in the name of this life which I command thy God, and thou shalt not commit any crime in the presence or in a false reputation I command you; therefore believe that they will not make a mark of thine own righteousness before





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Against my love shall be, as I am now,
With Time's injurious hand crushed and o'erworn;
When hours have drained his blood and filled his brow
WINNER:
With lines and wrinkles; when his youthful morn
Hath traveled on to age's steepy night,
And all those beauties whereof now he's king
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Stealing away the treasure of his spring;
For such a time do I now fortify
Against confounding age's cruel knife,
That he shall never cut from memory
My sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life.
His beauty shall in these black lines be seen,
And they shall live, and he in them still green.
LOSER:
,
It was time to have some new word, for I have seen
It was done in his name, and it fell, though I cannot
Find that of time itself! I fear lest it will
Hawk at the head,
The one whose love is not yet broken
But those who die long to return,
To their death. It had for the night that day
A great fire, with no end, on high and lofty land,
The night that began by it's own hand and
Thine fire on day after day, is extinguished by my fire.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When I have seen by Time's fell hand defaced
The rich proud cost of outworn buried age;
When sometime lofty towers I see down-razed
WINNER:
And brass eternal slave to mortal rage;
When I have seen the hungry ocean gain
Advantage on the kingdom of the shore,
And the firm soil win of the wat'ry main,
Increasing store with loss and loss with store;
When I have seen such interchange of state,
Or state itself confounded to decay,
Ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate,
That Time will come and take my love away.
This thought is as a death, which cannot choose
But weep to have that which it fears to lose.
LOSER:
;
And still by My eyes, I never hear it from a dead man.
When I was young the very city heaped,
When I was at the sea of man at bottom, And long to the last day to a lonely young man
When when he looked over me from out of the darkness,
The only thing they brought
That would satisfy our hunger or desire.
And what do I, The city from which he lived,
Wrap, in my hand my cloak that bears an eunuch from afar, For the only thing who bears to death one? -
1-10 Then I hear a great shout from the heart of my kinsman; But the poor kinsman never, he will not see; But my kinsman did not let his hand touch me.
He drew back, and with quick glance fell to the pavement like a ghost at sleep, And looked only as though he came from a thousand days. - Now how many days hath this knight long spent on a dead man, To see his flesh as it shall end for them in time? -

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea
But sad mortality o'ersways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
WINNER:
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, how shall summer's honey breath hold out
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout
Nor gates of steel so strong, but Time decays?
O, fearful meditation! Where, alack,
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back,
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
O, none, unless this miracle have might,
That in black ink my love may still shine bright.
LOSER:
(of his grief) of his desire,
Nor shall her face any man's pity; he shall make death a plea from the eyes of justice." (A. C. A. XI:3)
It is also known that he did not take an act of love in the face of God but rather on behalf of the victim of crime, since Christ said unto Peter and James, "That you shall commit no sin in my name."
Then he took his brother and mother to Jesus; and when he was done in, he gave one of the sons of Jesus to him to keep in his bosom, so Peter put an end to him.
But all his actions on earth and in the world were a crime and had been condemned to hell before, since He told Paul, "No such crime has ever escaped me."
The Lord did not send death unto him, so many who are in his presence have no knowledge at all of these crimes against them.
Then again, he wrote in Isaiah:—"There are but two that shall ever hold any testimony against one another. The first shall never perish against that man because of his righteousness." The second shall be put into grave condition, (it must always do as though the second's life were over.)
Hereafter he gave death not only




----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Tired with all these, for restful death I cry:
As, to behold desert a beggar born,
And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,
WINNER:
And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
And gilded honor shamefully misplaced,
And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,
And strength by limping sway disabled,
And art made tongue-tied by authority,
And folly, doctor-like, controlling skill,
And simple truth miscalled simplicity,
And captive good attending captain ill.
Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,
Save that, to die, I leave my love alone.
LOSER:
yet, as in a sad death,
'Tis but fair-heart's hour; but that one, and a friend,
What, when no, in time too short have died,
So he that should bear him?
A poor little beggar? And how good the thing is
In the old woman of man! A little beggar is that who has not borne him, but yet his brother's not bereaved,
To bear him; if that is no better, how much more in truth
This world they call death. Yet death itself is better than life's sorrows.
For to death he might go far; death himself be a lightness, more light, less dark. That was said by my brother Tiberius at Lacedaemon.
The second to the third chapter of the book is about him who gives us that we will come near the end of all this, though that will be only one hour.
If you will stop now

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Ah, wherefore with infection should he live,
And with his presence grace impiety,
That sin by him advantage should achieve
WINNER:
And lace itself with his society?
Why should false painting imitate his cheek
And steal dead seeing of his living hue?
Why should poor beauty indirectly seek
Roses of shadow, since his rose is true?
Why should he live, now Nature bankrout is,
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
For she hath no exchequer now but his,
And, proud of many, lives upon his gains?
O, him she stores, to show what wealth she had
In days long since, before these last so bad.
LOSER:
its utmost
So that no one in Paradise cannot seek salvation till he has entered;
The whole place being filled with sin
That will only grow for an hour's journey:
For thus the soul of this world is like a rock and the ground, so deep is her ruin
He must go down for good by that ground.
Be thou, with good desire, to die,
For he who has set a sign for every act so he cannot sin,
That no word is made to the souls before it;
When by heaven is not made and now a day is not, that which had spoken not and an hour not has, neither is there seen yet, so that the sin that was already laid out shall not fail on that hour.
He must be cast in Hell to bring about salvation.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn,
When beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
Before these bastard signs of fair were borne,
WINNER:
Or durst inhabit on a living brow;
Before the golden tresses of the dead,
The right of sepulchers, were shorn away
To live a second life on second head,
Ere beauty's dead fleece made another gay.
In him those holy antique hours are seen,
Without all ornament, itself and true,
Making no summer of another's green,
Robbing no old to dress his beauty new.
And him as for a map doth Nature store,
To show false art what beauty was of yore.
LOSER:
Who did you go astray, with your eyes and ears, with your cheeks and cheek,
Darling? Your mother, what were you?
Mother's father and mother's son who did you kill!
You and I alone? Where would your mother see those poor devils to whom they did it
After her birth in thy kingdom in land or near her? (But you killed no of them but I!) I didn't wish you so bad, the Lord. (He could kill the good-hearted without killing!)
There is the world we once lived by, but now a single mother lives in it, it never seems changed with her actions! The world she lived in was now full-blown hell! No man or woman who dared challenge my faith and me.
The Lord is one man who never gave them a penny! But it seemed possible when I met his eyes so they must give up the delusion he now had for his wife. And when I did that little thing she saw the child he would not return, nor give again. But she does now give up this fooly delusion! She sees there was never my trust and fear, nor love for her, nor hope. Her face now reveals what she does for no thing but profit and profit-power! How could I help her? I





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Those parts of thee that the world's eye doth view
Want nothing that the thought of hearts can mend.
All tongues, the voice of souls, give thee that due,
WINNER:
Utt'ring bare truth, even so as foes commend.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
But those same tongues that give thee so thine own
In other accents do this praise confound
By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
And that, in guess, they measure by thy deeds;
Then, churls, their thoughts, although their eyes were kind,
To thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds.
But why thy odor matcheth not thy show,
The soil is this, that thou dost common grow.
LOSER:
Which all those words, the soul's words, can bear.
Come now; come back now, and I might speak
That no person hath the words to hold him upright:
Whist thy heart open and hear and believe, with the Holy Ghost.
Give yourself that I can speak unto thee,
No man shall hear thy words of wisdom of men and love.
Give thou also the gift thou hast, that ye might be saved through Him.
O, now; my grace unto thee,
From thenceforth, I should set thee free, that Thou wouldst leave the world!
This shall be all I speak of; that I may say, "Whom am I?"
As for those from thee, O I say; thou wilt come on.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
That thou art blamed shall not be thy defect,
For slander's mark was ever yet the fair.
The ornament of beauty is suspect,
WINNER:
A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
So thou be good, slander doth but approve
Thy worth the greater, being wooed of time,
For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,
And thou present'st a pure unstained prime.
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
Either not assailed, or victor being charged;
Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.
LOSER:
The woman a fool.
To the first judge and to their last man, I'm a slave's wife." - Matthew 18:21"And in heaven's sight is set forth many mighty judgments:And that on earth I shall set these men and women,I shall send them forth out of shame (charlah), They are to blame their deeds on God for righteousness on earth..." -- Jeremiah 10:34"For ye know the Lord Jesus Christ: for I am the Lamb of God:"










----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
No longer mourn for me when I am dead
Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell
Give warning to the world that I am fled
WINNER:
From this vile world with vilest worms to dwell.
Nay, if you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it, for I love you so
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
If thinking on me then should make you woe.
O, if, I say, you look upon this verse
When I, perhaps, compounded am with clay,
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse,
But let your love even with my life decay,
Lest the wise world should look into your moan
And mock you with me after I am gone.
LOSER:
to and conquered by a wicked ruler to keep up a long age,
Whose head we meet in darkness at midnight, but in my shadow's glory I walk at a young age, after
that he whose face we are drawn to, whom none fear
And who stands at his right to the sword's edge in his battle armour but a weak warrior
In peace you may go far beyond my days of imprisonment, for with thee you cannot die and not yet be gone through the dark nights at that day
I believe me a liar but I live a great tale to tell so that it may not be too much to lose
I come and hear, you shall see a great land and be safe, then I shall return to the world, I shall tell you where I came and see my family where in a way that if the earth was in safety in my day I never know
As you say, but with the last song I have told you I come back into the life of man to tell those that lived through my time the stories I shall say from his place where a family of their past, that was once a proud place with their father, where at least some of my kin may get in, and where my sister-mother may live in good health and get a chance but I fear that we can not tell




----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O, lest the world should task you to recite
What merit lived in me that you should love,
After my death, dear love, forget me quite,
WINNER:
For you in me can nothing worthy prove;
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
To do more for me than mine own desert,
And hang more praise upon deceased I
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
O, lest your true love may seem false in this,
That you for love speak well of me untrue,
My name be buried where my body is
And live no more to shame nor me nor you.
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
And so should you, to love things nothing worth.
LOSER:
so that me to you, with you,
To bear this good name, your name you can read without the dead's
I have been for seven thousand years of our kinswomen alone
You will never come in my tomb in life, and there be nothing else yet to make thee see
That you should cherish my soul but what thou wast never afraid, thou
Was a great woman's heart to the face of the world I had not long for thee and me
I was lost for eight generations my family would keep waiting to tell you why my mother lost so often and did not return
My grandfather, the son of a master called Sotha, was the only mother that ever lost more of this world than that I once had,
As though there were only four to be kept at any one time, with the greatest sorrow at being unable to hold up.
MAY 5th of April I found this room (called the Tower) by my own choice with no light inside but one dark shadow. The room had been so dim for days and even for an instant there was no one, but for no other. But at last my own light seemed clear of darkness. My thoughts went through the many words they must have whispered in these dark dreams - this was my first dream after all. The room


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
That time of year thou mayst in me behold
When yellow leaves, or none, or few, do hang
Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,
WINNER:
Bare ruined choirs where late the sweet birds sang.
In me thou see'st the twilight of such day
As after sunset fadeth in the west,
Which by and by black night doth take away,
Death's second self, that seals up all in rest.
In me thou see'st the glowing of such fire
That on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
As the death-bed whereon it must expire,
Consumed with that which it was nourished by.
This thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,
To love that well which thou must leave ere long.
LOSER:
That in winter,
And the clouds of the north and the seas the blue, I doth
With these and all the stars and stars in our midst, And doth the land
The first sun, the second, the third, the fourth, etc.
When it should be morning when we're near, and I'd
As soon as its light might shine, Or how the sun would be a man, if He looked; For the night and Day he'd
Where all the stars, with the bright green and grey
And each one of them in his place, were just all together
The sun is at work every day and day for ten days; And for what hour shall
Take the hour, how the man shall set his heart to do what Thou seeest
Or the one's face and mind shall judge, what thou lookest with thy sight.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
But be contented when that fell arrest
Without all bail shall carry me away,
My life hath in this line some interest,
WINNER:
Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
When thou reviewest this, thou dost review
The very part was consecrate to thee.
The earth can have but earth, which is his due;
My spirit is thine, the better part of me.
So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,
The prey of worms, my body being dead,
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
Too base of thee to be remembered.
The worth of that is that which it contains,
And that is this, and this with thee remains.
LOSER:
so that at least it may continue
No. 38. There hath nothing to be more troublesome when thou shouldst lay in a jail before thee?
Now my duty I give thee. And yet I make thee
You know not how it shall look. Let thine fate rest upon thee? Then it will, in no wise, leave her, for thou shouldst not have any choice but this:
When shall this life end? Be satisfied now, then! when do thou, and in what ways! when and how is this to end? For how shall it last
When it shall end? As it should end for me it for others, and then, indeed, so far it should; yea and by thy goodness are so many
By how and what kind thee art thou?
A life of my own that thou canst preserve; thou that I couldst have had as I did; thee is my brotherly friend's, thy brother-of-one's
There, thou shall live in another life I have the more. A true soul, if any is left it shall be at peace. He who goes on living may end.
There, you will meet an heir of my estate. A young man will rise up again to the throne of men's affairs at last, when he will die for good; it must


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
So are you to my thoughts as food to life,
Or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground;
And for the peace of you I hold such strife
WINNER:
As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found:
Now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure;
Now counting best to be with you alone,
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure.
Sometime all full with feasting on your sight,
And by and by clean starved for a look;
Possessing or pursuing no delight
Save what is had or must from you be took.
Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
Or gluttoning on all, or all away.
LOSER:
,
So that the night will never come upon me,
Nor that man would look down on my soul till morning!









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Why is my verse so barren of new pride,
So far from variation or quick change?
Why with the time do I not glance aside
WINNER:
To new-found methods and to compounds strange?
Why write I still all one, ever the same,
And keep invention in a noted weed,
That every word doth almost tell my name,
Showing their birth and where they did proceed?
O, know, sweet love, I always write of you,
And you and love are still my argument;
So all my best is dressing old words new,
Spending again what is already spent.
For as the sun is daily new and old,
So is my love, still telling what is told.
LOSER:
on these men
But have rather the right view
And say what comes nearer as the good deed hath come for me through grace in my Lord, with Christ above, and by baptism unto grace unto redemption
[Matthew 11:44]"You would, for love's sake, send them unto you like children and heirs to be baptized and blessed with many new deeds."I do not hold upon any words and words more precious to me. Let's put this aside as well as we might, not let the Holy Ghost have it in order that it may enlighten and comfort us.If a reader was to write me about a "vague prayer," I would say a few things;1–I find that prayer outshone prayer when I read the words. This I believe is a matter of common knowledge of what people usually pray in their mind. I am always sure and often have heard many such "good deeds" (whether written or uncharitable; for the one who doesn't care what others tell him or why he likes his works) written about or in private, especially since it might be written a lot later. I don't know if this is a blessing, a bad one of those "wasting of all time" things, in fact it seems like it can sometimes get away with some sort of wicked or misdirected effort








----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,
Thy dial how thy precious minutes waste;
The vacant leaves thy mind's imprint will bear,
WINNER:
And of this book this learning mayst thou taste:
The wrinkles which thy glass will truly show,
Of mouthed graves will give thee memory;
Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know
Time's thievish progress to eternity.
Look what thy memory cannot contain
Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find
Those children nursed, delivered from thy brain,
To take a new acquaintance of thy mind.
These offices, so oft as thou wilt look,
Shall profit thee and much enrich thy book.
LOSER:
It's our call for thy help to cast off the disease. But thou shalt cast thy watch in one swift glance.
A man may speak this way unto all a multitude at the end of one hour, if he likes, not for fear, but for fear for his good. That should come true only through patience--for patience cannot be taken literally, but not of itself, except a patient who will be given notice through patience.
"Breathe carefully and listen closely to every word that come;
For I do not have your mercy but for thy mercy," said Thyma, to her own great wisdom and the voice from far off in heaven.
And the next morning the Messenger of God went through His own way to a little shop there, in the village that the King of Samaria is now staying away from.
For the Messenger of God made his way among them to see what is a gift from his Lord the Great. When that came close to pass, the great temple of the King was left at a distance.
And the man who walked by then turned his back, and the great mosque the name of that very great mosque opened a little on its top to view. So much has God done for those few. Now this is why he sent two disciples to greet Him at a small





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
So oft have I invoked thee for my muse
And found such fair assistance in my verse
As every alien pen hath got my use
WINNER:
And under thee their poesy disperse.
Thine eyes, that taught the dumb on high to sing
And heavy ignorance aloft to fly,
Have added feathers to the learned's wing
And given grace a double majesty.
Yet be most proud of that which I compile,
Whose influence is thine and born of thee.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
But thou art all my art and dost advance
As high as learning my rude ignorance.
LOSER:
. Amen
But I cannot even begin to see with that same hand which doth keep the soul awake (1 Corinthians 7).










----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,
My verse alone had all thy gentle grace;
But now my gracious numbers are decayed,
WINNER:
And my sick muse doth give another place.
I grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent
He robs thee of and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
Since what he owes thee thou thyself dost pay.
LOSER:
Now thou art on the last line, a true God;
And now thou hast thy throne within my breast;
And, though they deny thee,
I hope it has a great reward within,
That in Christ it shall rise for all our sins unto His.
Thus it is with the Apostles in heaven of His mercy and glory."






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O, how I faint when I of you do write,
Knowing a better spirit doth use your name,
And in the praise thereof spends all his might,
WINNER:
To make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.
But since your worth, wide as the ocean is,
The humble as the proudest sail doth bear,
My saucy bark, inferior far to his,
On your broad main doth willfully appear.
Your shallowest help will hold me up afloat
Whilst he upon your soundless deep doth ride,
Or, being wracked, I am a worthless boat,
He of tall building and of goodly pride.
Then, if he thrive and I be cast away,
The worst was this: my love was my decay.
LOSER:
For so it seemeth unto you to be to all I can do.
But it shall be seen what the Spirit of Truth is to you:
For the Spirit of Christ I know will teach me, how well shall it serve men?
Wear me, and give me all I can ask.
But my heart shall know you: that you cannot love.
HAPPINESS TO LORD FOLJAY
What do I think that I, God, can do for Him that he, the Spirit,
Have given that I, Spirit, in so great a grace have let your blood flow,
I, Spirit? what I believe, do in that spirit, when ye are free:
My salvation that ye believe will I offer to thee.
If all these suffer and my salvation be, let us give it:

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Or I shall live your epitaph to make
Or you survive when I in earth am rotten.
From hence your memory death cannot take,
WINNER:
Although in me each part will be forgotten.
Your name from hence immortal life shall have,
Though I, once gone, to all the world must die.
The Earth can yield me but a common grave,
When you entombed in men's eyes shall lie.
Your monument shall be my gentle verse,
Which eyes not yet created shall o'erread;
And tongues to be your being shall rehearse
When all the breathers of this world are dead.
You still shall live--such virtue hath my pen--
Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men.
LOSER:
you die on my knees like me.
I shall go back here and meet your face before him.
Abandoned in the earth the souls of the two souls can return home.
Abandoned in earth shall have to come back to me as well, I fear there are many to be taken there,
Heaven is only open until I meet them with joy.
There are many more souls than his but we will deal with 'em together.
In a year of hell I will set off and I will gather as many souls together as my people need, my people should be like this until I am done,
I will bring to his grave my first and last letter.
Abandoned in the earth we are not yet fully united and our souls meet there once every two years. I need the next one I want but can only reach the most prosperous of them at that time.
It takes years but you should live one in the last few days you shall meet him when he dies. That's when a big victory might happen.


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
I grant thou wert not married to my muse,
And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlook
The dedicated words which writers use
WINNER:
Of their fair subject, blessing every book.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.
And do so, love; yet when they have devised
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
Thou, truly fair, wert truly sympathized
In true plain words by thy true-telling friend.
And their gross painting might be better used
Where cheeks need blood; in thee it is abused.
LOSER:
." ~Homer's Wife [English]
She used to say that she was a woman of the spirit (as her grandmother) but that these descriptions "was never published". "She is in a lot of trouble"
After this, and as with most women that were considered women of power, their voices began to be heard by men when they are married and women in most countries of the West
As she was also known then that a woman who did such wonderful things could not live long in a city and it would not be proper to her be married
While we in the west use this word we don't think it is appropriate. Women, like other females, would have preferred to have some connection to this society (women will also feel entitled to marry men) so that one of them could "make the world better than" or perhaps at least be recognized as being a successful husband and would actually live "greater lives" because she could bring people closer by having more in common with you so that there would be more opportunities for you to have some contact and maybe even make friends. Women wouldn't know that any better than an average person was. It only takes you to hear the other one talking through that voice for you get an advantage as that person's own power gives birth to "good things" and







----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
I never saw that you did painting need
And therefore to your fair no painting set.
I found, or thought I found, you did exceed
WINNER:
The barren tender of a poet's debt.
And therefore have I slept in your report,
That you yourself, being extant, well might show
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.
This silence for my sin you did impute,
Which shall be most my glory, being dumb,
For I impair not beauty, being mute,
When others would give life and bring a tomb.
There lives more life in one of your fair eyes
Than both your poets can in praise devise.
LOSER:
my power,
Now as I can neither paint or think, so also you can paint
When any woman sees what I mean?









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Who is it that says most, which can say more
Than this rich praise, that you alone are you,
In whose confine immured is the store
WINNER:
Which should example where your equal grew?
Lean penury within that pen doth dwell
That to his subject lends not some small glory,
But he that writes of you, if he can tell
That you are you, so dignifies his story.
Let him but copy what in you is writ,
Not making worse what nature made so clear,
And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,
Making his style admired everywhere.
You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,
Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.
LOSER:
house, for the kingdom you sell; yet as it was
What man with no head can know that it must be found at a glance: where you would take
Of that it may well appear and say for this you may be wise, but we hold this to be
Than this very low reward: I, and they whom this same I now hold to be as worthless but men; but so when
The great is so sure of that he would lose His riches I trust that, in some measure, we have his power, or
A thousand other gifts, if he not be so in need.
For so good are the praises which these two might receive, though as I, the King, being at hand so long to speak, take, there must be many that may be of his choosing, it does not please my soul not to
And, with the many, as one.
Let my children have the kingdom they desire, if it does please them to make, in all its merits the whole truth and that of truth, in such an understanding, that as their good to say that we take.
A WALTHER LOCK, FROM ALGARY A MAN WITH GAS A WOODLEY
But if so, where are I of this matter so worthy of

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
My tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still
While comments of your praise, richly compiled,
Reserve their character with golden quill
WINNER:
And precious phrase by all the muses filed.
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is in my thought, whose love to you,
Though words come hindmost, holds his rank before.
Then others for the breath of words respect,
Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.
LOSER:
ings. (Linda Davidson
There would be another place in the world I had a bad reputation for so
I don't know, maybe there isn't) Then they began talking
But not while we all was dancing around on the floor
It felt as though he didn't notice his feet or something and walked right off in
Time for the new millennium with one look of his and his legs bent to go
The world seemed lost, the moon is only twenty miles above his head
But for me to stand beside him was to be just fine without your
Lunatic Love (Rhodes M).
The year 2011 was too big to give him a try. I was in an old warehouse, not close enough to see where he stayed. I saw the two men who had brought along the librarian to me. Rhea was right here, walking around to take her bearings before, a smile forming. She asked me if he was my boyfriend but that seemed to not matter much. We sat to listen over the bar that was packed with customers and some very pretty faces, a couple of them smiling back into our lap, some laughing, some very angry faces and my hands were shaking, and I saw my hair clamped behind my face, as though my heart was


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Was it the proud full sail of his great verse,
Bound for the prize of all-too-precious you,
That did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,
WINNER:
Making their tomb the womb wherein they grew?
Was it his spirit, by spirits taught to write
Above a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
No, neither he, nor his compeers by night
Giving him aid, my verse astonished.
He, nor that affable familiar ghost
Which nightly gulls him with intelligence,
As victors of my silence cannot boast;
I was not sick of any fear from thence.
But when your countenance filled up his line,
Then lacked I matter; that enfeebled mine.
LOSER:
I knew he never lost his strength, or the heart of the earth.
This man that he is a part of who I have never met has so broken my heart,
I have a friend that was, a friend that I never met.
This man is my friend, my friend that I never met and he is my friend;
I have friends on our earth and all who have been born, that had their hands tied and their eyes opened and they can look.
He will be my friend, my friend that you know I will.
He was the little child of a housekeeper, of a child of a house;
He was the big of your great tale, the great big picture;
He was our very real man, our whole being an individual picture or idea is a very great picture of the body of his life, your true form and likeness: all the others are the images and we all understand our nature, our self-images and self-manifestation. It should come as no surprise that a great man of this world would draw on the power and to-day it may be considered as "our body," the essence and embodiment of your true image, so that it can not deceive you, only be



----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Farewell, thou art too dear for my possessing,
And like enough thou know'st thy estimate.
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing;
WINNER:
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
And for that riches where is my deserving?
The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,
And so my patent back again is swerving.
Thy self thou gav'st, thy own worth then not knowing,
Or me, to whom thou gav'st it, else mistaking;
So thy great gift, upon misprision growing,
Comes home again, on better judgment making.
Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.
LOSER:
And for every little more or for a less.
The charter gives me much to do and great delight--
There's no one that doesn't rejoice or wonder at his riches.
'Tis he whose body has not gone into the deep depths
What it will find a new king and who no more can
Gonna take the throne till the sun shall fall and make light for the sea.
This great blessing
Was granted at her last birthday (of her time!)
O Lord, my Lord!
It was for you I raised out of thee;
So we give this day to you at thy birth

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When thou shalt be disposed to set me light
And place my merit in the eye of scorn,
Upon thy side against myself I'll fight
WINNER:
And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn.
With mine own weakness being best acquainted,
Upon thy part I can set down a story
Of faults concealed wherein I am attainted,
That thou, in losing me, shall win much glory;
And I by this will be a gainer too;
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
That, for thy right, myself will bear all wrong.
LOSER:
thee
So that I shall find it of you, the same as mine;
So that I am a part of you, I shall know
Even unto death, when I see thee fall from grace and
From a kingdom as before I have sworn;
Now come before and I'll teach thee what thee wilt refuse to
And shall cause me to know what thou hast made thyself a son;
That which thou hast broken down when thee should not go out of grace;
As from this shall thy righteousness take up. [10] But I will destroy them both before a great slaughter; yea and by every kind means and all sorts of torture
With what sword have I done that will set men up to be executed
Such as these must be killed with all those, of both sexes or sexes only.[7] It was in that order that I began, from it and by this, to have the power of bringing down all such men who ever lived; from it, also:

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Say that thou didst forsake me for some fault,
And I will comment upon that offense;
Speak of my lameness and I straight will halt,
WINNER:
Against thy reasons making no defense.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.
LOSER:
and take thy body's place
As that my words shall shine when I utter the last syllable;
When thy face shall fall to thy breasts, and thy body fall at last upon mine face and I shall have power
To call upon thee and to lay thee a trial against death
But, lo, it can be done only; for I knew ye as God did for me,
And God and thou also shalt take from me that that which came from behind;
To take back from my heart the knowledge and knowledge and thy will upon all this and it is my will to say of my father
"What sin shall I do, or if thou, on the other hand, go, what can I sin in my heart?"
It is not I which would set it at liberty to speak, I will do everything and anything to do what the word tells me that I would like.
[1. The Church of the Twelve Apostles, 1644.]
The following passage reads: "At that very instant, while many thoughts were swirling, there were three words—what did the Lord command them?"

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Then hate me when thou wilt, if ever, now,
Now, while the world is bent my deeds to cross,
Join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
WINNER:
And do not drop in for an afterloss.
Ah, do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe;
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
When other petty griefs have done their spite,
But in the onset come; so shall I taste
At first the very worst of fortune's might;
And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
Compared with loss of thee will not seem so.
LOSER:
and keep on
I will stand like one of the dead as he sits still. [L-l]
[The second letter of The King of Saxons was a work made in the 15th century by John Wiltsch of Bruges. William Henry Smith and William Smith also worked as "proverbs on a line" by translating one part of a verse into six and adding additional letters and spaces.[Pg 913]
It has also been suggested that The Kingsbury Dictionary of the Bible might explain the word use to this day. See also: the reference.
CHAPTER 8. GINGHARDING
(1). On the second month of The Fall of Thomas.
The first is an interesting description (not of The Kingsbury dictionary or of King Lear):
And all the saints were come into it with the grace of Christ. But their minds were empty in the remembrance of all that God is. The mind became more full of thought, with greater strength of purpose; and therefore they were also glad for sin as they were now, though without knowledge of all the riches, knowledge and glory that he and the Lord the God the Lord gave them. And this the apostle James wrote before (the second article and second passage being of great concern




----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Some glory in their birth, some in their skill,
Some in their wealth, some in their body's force,
Some in their garments, though newfangled ill,
WINNER:
Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse;
And every humor hath his adjunct pleasure,
Wherein it finds a joy above the rest.
But these particulars are not my measure;
All these I better in one general best.
Thy love is better than high birth to me,
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' cost,
Of more delight than hawks or horses be;
And having thee, of all men's pride I boast.
Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take
All this away, and me most wretched make.
LOSER:
the flesh of a beast.
For all the children of man love, their own; but they have a soul on the other hand. And as they were born of clay I know that their fathers took not of it a living being nor one for any; but as if upon all the bones they had not had flesh the soul gave back. And they began then and there by his word which he put into that man's body;
"If, now, I speak with God: let thy womb do thy work, and thy tongue hear thy soul. Now, as I gave thee wings for your wings I gave unto thee some, that you might fly over a lake and out through that land,"
"He [the king] breathed from their feet in blood, and from their throats in the air. It was in that, from which his word which said I come from, and in the water; that there should not be a man upon this account who speaks. For there are things he says of this generation of men with no authority.
They must know the laws they live by and hear him," cried he; and when the whole earth had breathed its air through a cloud with no sign and no sign of an hour. And as he came they saw the angels of his majesty,







----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
But do thy worst to steal thyself away,
For term of life thou art assured mine,
And life no longer than thy love will stay,
WINNER:
For it depends upon that love of thine.
Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs
When in the least of them my life hath end;
I see a better state to me belongs
Than that which on thy humor doth depend.
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Since that my life on thy revolt doth lie.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.
LOSER:
For you are in thy soul.
Therefore let thy worst do them thee with.
Chapter 39.— The Spirit of Life and The Way.
Now, in thy heart there are the two words of life
There come to thy head that I never would forget
I never knew any soul that could have
To fill up thy mouth with my name I thought in that
Soul there, you, God who have borne me upon thee
You are a Spirit of life,
You are a Spirit of service,
And a Light I would make to me for the rest of my time:

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
So shall I live, supposing thou art true,
Like a deceived husband; so love's face
May still seem love to me, though altered new;
WINNER:
Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.
For there can live no hatred in thine eye;
Therefore in that I cannot know thy change.
In many's looks, the false heart's history
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But heaven in thy creation did decree
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell;
Whate'er thy thoughts or thy heart's workings be,
Thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell.
How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
If thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.
LOSER:
And this love shall keep on thy hand."
And when you know all this, think to yourself why it might matter to you at all that a man should be happy with such a woman as you, yet still she is never more unhappy at him than when you don't like a woman. You've now put away a man for whom you love her. Now you just find an exception to that by having him in your possession. The second thing to consider is which person you'd have as your heir or heir with her. You have this option: the person whose father it would be right (or even good) would come to take the woman's head or his sword, in his right.
If you're happy with all these factors (and no harm has been done that way by a person like you), you might suppose a very likely scenario for marrying a certain sort of man. You had the child at the age when his wife would get married at a rate of 5 in most cases. Even you could make him some concessions to her (say the family must share the responsibility of the future fertility with other family members). There were few such people: your choice would not be to have two sisters by the age, you said. There was very little reason to feel guilty for it though – a marriage between









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
WINNER:
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow,
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces
And husband nature's riches from expense;
They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
Though to itself it only live and die;
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity.
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.
LOSER:
do not bring them down into the pit to cast on others.
The Jews who carry a Jew out are not not doing a righteous killing, as Abraham was; their act will not cause one of them to perish, but will destroy the other that lives in fear of death. But if one is brought before God for forgiveness, what other means can they possibly give to us that we will all learn?
This way of understanding is not one which was taught when they first come into society. Rather there are some of the earliest documents of their history (and especially those from their days in the days before the Israelite state). One of them is one of Israel's founding and founding officers, which was given some meaning from the name and language of its nation by Noah himself when he was named God in the Garden of Eden as He descended from Heaven into eternity. To those who are today concerned with ancient Israelite thought this is the first record in the whole Hebrew Bible about the names, languages, and history and the meaning it holds for what they are about. The whole Hebrew world was shaped before God (Isa 59:14), when the Bible explains their meaning by the laws of creation. The first written reference of Moses appears only three times in Old Testament Scripture. It says, "And Moses the Hebrew learned man said to









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
How sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame
Which, like a canker in the fragrant rose,
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!
WINNER:
O, in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose!
That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
Making lascivious comments on thy sport,
Cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise;
Naming thy name blesses an ill report.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Which for their habitation chose out thee,
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
And all things turns to fair that eyes can see!
Take heed, dear heart, of this large privilege;
The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.
LOSER:
And the pleasure with which this man should walk, and the praise
His goodness hath rendered him, after, and after the last
That, too long is thy death's sufferance; and at last
He might see thee die again, for thy grace, even before he, would be
Locked in death's prison as a man of old. -
Or what will he do? To give to thee the name and the title,
But will he not, in his name and, of his virtue, that is so beautiful;
He which made us live, is we. O most of us who walk the road that leads this, will
Live. For so great, in his love hath the honor now of birth
By thine iniquities. And thus it pleased me: "But I pray that your honor must be
For all who come hither" That the death which Thou couldst not have borne

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness;
Some say thy grace is youth and gentle sport.
Both grace and faults are loved of more and less;
WINNER:
Thou mak'st faults graces that to thee resort.
As on the finger of a throned queen
The basest jewel will be well esteemed,
So are those errors that in thee are seen
To truths translated and for true things deemed.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
But do not so. I love thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
LOSER:
To be of one will be love, not so that of more than one;
By a great sin thy grace cannot be known, or thy soul never known;
Therefore all wicked men should be ashamed." [7a] The following account by Diderot, the great philosopher, proves that the sin of his age which brought them to the trouble he had created was the curse which so badly destroyed the character of his fellow men, the fearlessness which had left him in every way, and the sorrow which, when a man in a bad sense of the word, finds not enough satisfaction and self esteem to repent for his folly, to say and to keep to it his conscience. [8] To whom this passage speaks perhaps it was not thought so great of that old gentleman who spoke about, when to think that this young man might yet have been so much affected, to have a bad sense of self-judgment, that "the more he be made to sin," if he will be truly so, his self-will would not suffer to change without that; he might have a soul that felt the good that must arise from having one, a soul that felt the wrong he had placed it in. But with these good men in mind, who in many ways had not had some chance yet to repent









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
How like a winter hath my absence been
From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen,
WINNER:
What old December's bareness everywhere!
And yet this time removed was summer's time,
The teeming autumn, big with rich increase,
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease.
Yet this abundant issue seemed to me
But hope of orphans and unfathered fruit;
For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
And thou away, the very birds are mute;
Or if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.
LOSER:
What the lightest of the woods? That my love be renewed, the warmth to my heart's peace And my love never to fall
On an unknown and fleeting day, To be all and be all forever.
Then the cold dawned, that this new love began A little beyond the mortal horizon!
How dost thou go into my bosom, how now is it so bright, How come that the wind does now seem of all the stars, And make its wings like to me at night?
Then that this beautiful summer may take its birth again: That now to make my love for her be renewed
And to know for her life of a true man may become his soul: That all might have to do with him: Now the winter hath the pleasure, and the hope, and the fear of my loved One: this summer and to become and be and enjoy what this one will do to you. I could, though my thoughts were to go forward on a different course now. That winter might be all but a year old this morning. That spring may become old for life once again In one day of three minutes. That month may become old, with its dawned love all round. Now that its beauty in summer and autumn so much of winter And with a long spring's grace so long
For





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
From you have I been absent in the spring,
When proud-pied April, dressed in all his trim,
Hath put a spirit of youth in everything,
WINNER:
That heavy Saturn laughed and leapt with him.
Yet nor the lays of birds nor the sweet smell
Of different flowers in odor and in hue
Could make me any summer's story tell,
Or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew.
Nor did I wonder at the lily's white,
Nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose;
They were but sweet, but figures of delight,
Drawn after you, you pattern of all those.
Yet seemed it winter still, and, you away,
As with your shadow I with these did play.
LOSER:
with
This country still growing, That you know better to go home and drink on
This side of the continent than I do the world:
To this nation was taken away: I never, under an oath to
The Father or his sons shall ever hear from the father's sons the thing you said in your first life, that you were to
Mere a stranger by nature; for, on my very face; a very natural thing
Can do no good when men are a stranger in nature, while this very man in turn
Has been his master and his heir for many ages.
THE WORD 'I am of a noble heritage who never did seek me. '
The man of noble ancestry I was to have the opportunity to visit
To take part and do his work is dead; nor has my name had it been used, in my last few

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
The forward violet thus did I chide:
"Sweet thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells,
If not from my love's breath? The purple pride
WINNER:
Which on thy soft cheek for complexion dwells
In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed."
The lily I condemned for thy hand,
And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair;
The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,
One blushing shame, another white despair;
A third, nor red nor white, had stol'n of both,
And to his robb'ry had annexed thy breath;
But, for his theft, in pride of all his growth
A vengeful canker ate him up to death.
More flowers I noted, yet I none could see
But sweet or color it had stol'n from thee.
LOSER:
hath made thee an idol to me, and to soiled my bosom. Thy name hath come as a gift; thy words have brought the love of my heart upon thee so, and not as the fragrance of the water's heat will do; thou, for me, be the sweet one who seeks them all. When I was thus chosen, this noble man was my wife, and in the same way I have said a vow against such and such an evil iniquity... and how, from that day on, so I did when the night fell; then didst this day I swear to love and not hurt my love..." The voice broke into a deep groan as the knight of Lestrange, who had been led by her, stepped forward.
In spite of this a mighty tumult began to grow between the house at Lestrange and a battle-ground. In the vicinity of the two places lies such a great mound as it would be too high up and the king had ordered an archery charge from two directions. The sword fell from some tower above which the castle grew high up, and as if at an elevated height. On top of it lay an array, where an arrow would drop, so that only three could be seen, where two arrows, at one time with one










----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Where art thou, muse, that thou forget'st so long
To speak of that which gives thee all thy might?
Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song,
WINNER:
Dark'ning thy power to lend base subjects light?
Return, forgetful muse, and straight redeem
In gentle numbers time so idly spent;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy pen both skill and argument.
Rise, resty muse; my love's sweet face survey
If Time have any wrinkle graven there.
If any, be a satire to decay
And make Time's spoils despised everywhere.
Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life;
So thou prevent'st his scythe and crooked knife.
LOSER:
where it not aught to offend and none will tell!
Wist thou so brave an eloquence as to ask for thy word to be silenced,
So much as the Lord thy Heaven-bearers can boast!
When God sent the man he thought best. But he came again after that time. What a man would dare say! 'How did thou, madam!
Why wilt thou, madam, go, say nothing! and find no other refuge to give me the voice?'
He did that again, with as sweetness and calmness of words which no words ever had before
To have found or told with the ear
The things that he himself spoke of by way of which men had given me a power over
Familiar things they never before felt but never will! For, if any one be a god of a people to the Lord, a power to so many things I can never hope to see! Who, if any one not from my realm could ever hear me say, I was of a man and this was a king; where am I now to live and not live again? Oh! where have so great a kingdom gone, how is it that I see the world still; and the words, as we



----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O truant muse, what shall be thy amends
For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?
Both truth and beauty on my love depends;
WINNER:
So dost thou too, and therein dignified.
Make answer, muse. Wilt thou not haply say
"Truth needs no color with his color fixed,
Beauty no pencil beauty's truth to lay;
But best is best if never intermixed"?
Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
Excuse not silence so, for 't lies in thee
To make him much outlive a gilded tomb
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
Then do thy office, muse; I teach thee how
To make him seem long hence as he shows now.
LOSER:
Which we shall find out in a great matter, and we will judge,
Whose law which I seek before God, whose laws I can find.
Now, now; for now let these words stand out plainly; but let them serve as an example: 'All that have knowledge shall be judged, and those who have knowledge
If they have only what can stand in God; they have no other aim or right, yet they remain the way it is. Be thou not willing therefore unto God to speak His name, lest thou also should perish. If anyone is judged, if they hear, and are found and judged. For then we know, but no word but what can stand; it does as thou have seen, is there other in itself that is judged? Nay; let such a god in truth make of itself a God of truth, and a God according to Him.
Whoso says this I, then it is with my head that hath come
So to the right of reason. For a God, as a great god, hath said to men. Thou, therefore, knowest thou that all things are but to Him? Ye, however, and have it brought about as your will through that through which you have not, through good will done done,
In Christ Jesus, the Word of God;





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
My love is strengthened, though more weak in seeming;
I love not less, though less the show appear.
That love is merchandized whose rich esteeming
WINNER:
The owner's tongue doth publish everywhere.
Our love was new, and then but in the spring,
When I was wont to greet it with my lays,
As Philomel in summer's front doth sing,
And stops his pipe in growth of riper days.
Not that the summer is less pleasant now
Than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,
But that wild music burdens every bough,
And sweets grown common lose their dear delight.
Therefore, like her, I sometime hold my tongue,
Because I would not dull you with my song.
LOSER:
Than mine is manifest from its purity; yea, its sweetness.
For I feel like my heart as I know
That a starless sun was not ever my light.
Astarved to starlight, when the love for the light
As soon as it is discovered that I shall return
As fast as my heart's going forth. Now therefore that we have been freed out of the pit,
And by a long and deep communion we may return to our own love—now let's not forget the place the song
A Starlight for all was once to have; but now this light I shall love so as to see the light
A light of truth more brilliant than any. We would never die in this. This sweet night that
All this time I wish so that she could do and hear me, but, after I came to this, let's see the sound: it is for my sake to show her how. How we, though all our being
There is the world under pain and pain, and for all the nations as all of our world—how could we not live without love's love? In other countries the love that came of this light comes of the whole world as my love—let that love come that truly and entirely we shall all be united through our love

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Alack, what poverty my muse brings forth,
That, having such a scope to show her pride,
The argument all bare is of more worth
WINNER:
Than when it hath my added praise beside.
O, blame me not if I no more can write!
Look in your glass, and there appears a face
That overgoes my blunt invention quite,
Dulling my lines and doing me disgrace.
Were it not sinful, then, striving to mend,
To mar the subject that before was well?
For to no other pass my verses tend
Than of your graces and your gifts to tell.
And more, much more, than in my verse can sit
Your own glass shows you when you look in it.
LOSER:
in mine;
A little with your art to give back the rest. ———
How did thou leave me so ignorant that thou wouldst see nothing which I lack? thou saidest; I have just seen that
[page 961]
Him was no more well-disposed to your counsel or in your life; for, according to
my observations, nothing of the nature of his art I thought but vainly
waking up. Why dost thou think that she should think the time best of the whole world;, who were
suddenly in some other place. If you are so anxious not to look, thou wert to take me to thy side! Why say not that this matter is such as can be explained
upon the very contrary
— and what was its reason by whom it were done? and was there any particular desire to speak
from this, that would cause any men who wished to gain at what we should find ourselves?" But

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
To me, fair friend, you never can be old,
For as you were when first your eye I eyed,
Such seems your beauty still. Three winters cold
WINNER:
Have from the forests shook three summers' pride,
Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned
In process of the seasons have I seen,
Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,
Since first I saw you fresh, which yet are green.
Ah, yet doth beauty, like a dial hand,
Steal from his figure, and no pace perceived;
So your sweet hue, which methinks still doth stand,
Hath motion, and mine eye may be deceived.
For fear of which, hear this, thou age unbred:
Ere you were born was beauty's summer dead.
LOSER:
;
Sunder is far colder now, and I will go a lot colder. You are a young old fellow, how could I be
Yet for your taste is the most good; but, let us pray that my body not be,
O my friends; I will not seek to hold you in captivity. For as much as we
Sunder is still, I don't think any one has even known you so long;
[16:45]: But what about your beauty? My, the one is as a child when born to a sister? A year and half after
the first kiss, and by God your youth has turned him into an old woman;
Sunder your beautiful form in such a state is beautiful even unto his youth
I wonder now at this age that a young maiden is
Never seen naked when before they are in love.'
The maidens replied very warmly in such a high manner,

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Let not my love be called idolatry,
Nor my beloved as an idol show,
Since all alike my songs and praises be
WINNER:
To one, of one, still such, and ever so.
Kind is my love today, tomorrow kind,
Still constant in a wondrous excellence;
Therefore my verse, to constancy confined,
One thing expressing, leaves out difference.
"Fair, kind, and true" is all my argument,
"Fair, kind, and true," varying to other words;
And in this change is my invention spent,
Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.
"Fair," "kind," and "true" have often lived alone,
Which three till now never kept seat in one.
LOSER:
sung at that of my house; And to God shall ye be my glory, O love: that ye may live unto our death and come back in glory: O my beloved wife whom is dear. He said unto me that the children might hear my voice: (2) Where thou shalt cry the day that maneth not
To be ashamed of thee that love thy wife and follow her. Then they cried aloud with great loudness, To tell of thy heart that they did speak to her with great loudness. Then I said unto him, "Do not do any thing with words in my ears." And the Lord said unto me, Wherever my husband is from you shall no more be called God." And I saith unto this child whom she loves whom God loved
To tell the Lord of all of them when they go. For unto God may no name be born of thy mother, or the son; But it behoved thy son shall not speak a thing unto that which was never brought forth forth on earth
And if a woman in Christ be found guilty
Of all of that I give unto the Spirit in the womb thereof, And if a man is not in heaven save that he be in hell
And shall say it, It is no matter how much I love thee, thou shalt be God's wife






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
When in the chronicle of wasted time
I see descriptions of the fairest wights,
And beauty making beautiful old rhyme
WINNER:
In praise of ladies dead and lovely knights,
Then in the blazon of sweet beauty's best,
Of hand, of foot, of lip, of eye, of brow,
I see their antique pen would have expressed
Even such a beauty as you master now.
So all their praises are but prophecies
Of this our time, all you prefiguring;
And, for they looked but with divining eyes,
They had not skill enough your worth to sing.
For we, which now behold these present days,
Have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.
LOSER:
They tell you.
They tell you they will show you what their day is called 'sixty six".
There isn't anything that comes into my mind but the sense of 'time in their eye'.
Time is precious and that would never give them more pleasure in me (as though they were playing some very good music ).
So they make me believe there is a meaning in looking into a person's life when the eye looks across the table to see what there is for everyone's sake.
Time, there were in their eyes at least (or as I have tried), is what gets the little things they hold open.
And this is the one that shows when the soul is open to this: -when the eye is the world as it were,
Then, when time and the world are together in love: there can never once be an end,
As one does.
I never could remember ever seeing the beauty of the sun, the moon, the stars -all when the sun did not shine.
In all reality, even now the same things have their beauty lost through their neglect.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Not mine own fears nor the prophetic soul
Of the wide world dreaming on things to come
Can yet the lease of my true love control,
WINNER:
Supposed as forfeit to a confined doom.
The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured,
And the sad augurs mock their own presage;
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
Now with the drops of this most balmy time
My love looks fresh, and Death to me subscribes,
Since, spite of him, I'll live in this poor rhyme,
While he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes;
And thou in this shalt find thy monument
When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent.
LOSER:
the heart
That seizes the breath to open the flood
And its own spirit to lead: the last great event of our life's days
I do know to say that with the strength
All which are waiting
The light with which to the eyes of life shall rise
For the eternal day where man is now to enjoy the
Spiritual glory which we cherish together,
All from those whose life has come with light, in spite of death
As if they are alone in my life.


----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
What's in the brain that ink may character
Which hath not figured to thee my true spirit?
What's new to speak, what now to register,
WINNER:
That may express my love or thy dear merit?
Nothing, sweet boy; but yet, like prayers divine,
I must each day say o'er the very same,
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, I thine,
Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.
So that eternal love in love's fresh case
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
Finding the first conceit of love there bred,
Where time and outward form would show it dead.
LOSER:
Wherewith shall your soul speak? Who is your own head and who thou art in
And which hath thou not understood so that thou hast not
This was born of God thy Maker.
What is the art to know: from Him is a man brought into reality?
Why do they not comprehend this and draw a man into what is unknown?
Now we believe in the name God. I may not believe without faith in Him;
What can they do so that you, as you believe, may see it not? Where do your souls see that thou belieth? Where art thou then made the God to be? What man hath the wisdom not but not God's man? He hath not made you to judge them, and his will not?
These thoughts will not pass, the minds will run wild. What we have is one, I see: the name the Son God, to name them. All I am will come down in glory upon all worlds that will worship Him. When, all these do, the true Lord that sent thee into this land and will do this work to us all will set on Him all the generations until he will do all his works to us all by those who seek after His name in His word; this glory which we know of He and we are all the more blessed for




----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O, never say that I was false of heart,
Though absence seemed my flame to qualify;
As easy might I from myself depart
WINNER:
As from my soul, which in thy breast doth lie.
That is my home of love. If I have ranged,
Like him that travels I return again,
Just to the time, not with the time exchanged,
So that myself bring water for my stain.
Never believe, though in my nature reigned
All frailties that besiege all kinds of blood,
That it could so preposterously be stained
To leave for nothing all thy sum of good.
For nothing this wide universe I call,
Save thou, my rose; in it thou art my all.
LOSER:
.
He saw her with his pale eyes, And sat by her with the bright head,
Taken from those great and graceful hands; By great was that voice I was glad, The sight of his mother who knew me I had, and so, on seeing she love her sister with her best heart, At first of old my tongue said I wouldn't; I should love her as I loved her; But for her in which a strong love did follow her, So now on that dreadful night I kissed her again for me to drink; Though the love of our father had departed From that hour I could not escape his touch In that heart from my mouth of yours I could never be
From now till my tears had flowed my way The most exquisite song And this sweet song would keep to me, Of me, who love God, the very one most dear To every other. Now, my dear mother, You have my sweet child And all that I adore. What could go unproved? I love her deeply, Love is my child, My child's heart is with her, And it would be so if it would love.
To see your tears of passion, The more am I for love so sweet Is the better, Though I still do not have any child so sweet To say that of me: To me I must wish her







----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Alas, 'tis true, I have gone here and there
And made myself a motley to the view,
Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,
WINNER:
Made old offenses of affections new.
Most true it is that I have looked on truth
Askance and strangely; but by all above,
These blenches gave my heart another youth,
And worse essays proved thee my best of love.
Now all is done, have what shall have no end.
Mine appetite I never more will grind
On newer proof, to try an older friend,
A god in love, to whom I am confined.
Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
Even to thy pure and most most loving breast.
LOSER:
That there can never I remain.
O, I hear you may, so often a morn;
Glad, to be, so great a joy that a soul like yours could never see again…I was
'tis you for long at home who has been gone on an awful ride. My darling, no one will say it is 'tis the last time
O, she told me: you've spent ten years in our home. Do a thing well, then do yourself proud; do an even deed. A thousand-elders and orphans have died on my doorstep when I wrote these lines:
Won't any more! They don't care:
The heart, the heart, will still bleed
But then all their eyes would open.
I'm gone as a man: not so now, now, yet; not by so very long and yet!
I may write one day of me, you say, and then I'll make another, but I don't think it much.
A thousand, no, no: you don't feel a single difference with that 'tis you, then, a moll: but it really does a real thing, and if it was ever your time to make a moll it may justifiably

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O, for my sake do you with Fortune chide,
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
That did not better for my life provide
WINNER:
Than public means which public manners breeds.
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand;
And almost thence my nature is subdued
To what it works in, like the dyer's hand.
Pity me, then, and wish I were renewed,
Whilst, like a willing patient, I will drink
Potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection;
No bitterness that I will bitter think,
Nor double penance, to correct correction.
Pity me, then, dear friend, and I assure ye
Even that your pity is enough to cure me.
LOSER:
me of what
Sufficient would give her me, and she and her husband had I the day
For my good work by God that had the world by the heart,
Which shall it come out when God has given my flesh and blood so free from any disease,
And make my house ready in God's good will from whom I came:
The wicked I may be, my house and all its children from my father so cursed.






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Your love and pity doth th' impression fill
Which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
WINNER:
So you o'ergreen my bad, my good allow?
You are my all the world, and I must strive
To know my shames and praises from your tongue;
None else to me, nor I to none alive,
That my steeled sense or changes right or wrong.
In so profound abysm I throw all care
Of others' voices that my adder's sense
To critic and to flatterer stopped are.
Mark how with my neglect I do dispense:
You are so strongly in my purpose bred
That all the world besides methinks are dead.
LOSER:
my lord, have
But his doute of th' same, that doun
Whose little life must I die without any.
My friend, your sister and friend be free,
And all my life shall be with me.'
That day God, his mother's, and the whole church are silent
As their brother may not answer her prayers for, her mother may be afraid.
And if it came, they shall not listen
Their lord's hand, where he doun,
A pity-loving hand, if she can find it,
That shall know, that thy name I shall bless

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Since I left you, mine eye is in my mind,
And that which governs me to go about
Doth part his function, and is partly blind,
WINNER:
Seems seeing, but effectually is out;
For it no form delivers to the heart
Of bird, of flower, or shape which it doth latch;
Of his quick objects hath the mind no part,
Nor his own vision holds what it doth catch.
For if it see the rud'st or gentlest sight,
The most sweet favor or deformed'st creature,
The mountain or the sea, the day or night,
The crow or dove, it shapes them to your feature.
Incapable of more, replete with you,
My most true mind thus maketh mine eye untrue.
LOSER:
For his face will tell me all I desire,
Doom-shadows are as in nature not quite dims as the eyes are;
Yet they all make and seem a thousand fold from the other,
Which do that who have it also feel
How the thing might appear through the air. It are we are not born with or for the heavens
We are all created through love, for this it is my intention.
And that God who has love must never fail
And ever do, and may be always perfect (which I hope,
In the first-past, when I will not, my eye is in my mind); but if it may do, then the eye is
And to be pure to the rest will become more and more difficult;
By its being so is a change the part that rules.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Or whether doth my mind, being crowned with you,
Drink up the monarch's plague, this flattery?
Or whether shall I say mine eye saith true,
WINNER:
And that your love taught it this alchemy,
To make of monsters and things indigest
Such cherubins as your sweet self resemble,
Creating every bad a perfect best
As fast as objects to his beams assemble?
O, 'tis the first: 'tis flattery in my seeing,
And my great mind most kingly drinks it up.
Mine eye well knows what with his gust is greeing,
And to his palate doth prepare the cup.
If it be poisoned, 'tis the lesser sin
That mine eye loves it and doth first begin.
LOSER:
or die, my head thou shouldst have it,
You that are such an affliction to such an eye, do not listen to, or your heart will fail?
The day begins at once to speak to your heart like it could stand in your presence, to speak about you who know that I love you so much,
and have ever been worthy of my life's use—
To make them your slaves. No such thing could happen without my help.
So this is our salvation unto thee who serve your eyes like light and watch that day for your love.
[Chapter XXVI, Verse XXIII; Page II of "Virtues"]





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Those lines that I before have writ do lie,
Even those that said I could not love you dearer;
Yet then my judgment knew no reason why
WINNER:
My most full flame should afterwards burn clearer.
But reckoning time, whose millioned accidents
Creep in 'twixt vows and change decrees of kings,
Tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st intents,
Divert strong minds to th' course of alt'ring things--
Alas, why, fearing of time's tyranny,
Might I not then say "Now I love you best,"
When I was certain o'er incertainty,
Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?
Love is a babe. Then might I not say so,
To give full growth to that which still doth grow.
LOSER:
I should weep for you."—Heath-Eye.
Then he gave it a smile, and walked, without fear of anger, from place to place,
After saying goodbye to his servant as often as he could.
His name must be Ptolemy, son of Astellus (2 Corinthians 19:25.14, 24).
For when he was twelve months old, I met Ptolemy when I came into her chamber, looking for the father he always thought to be the Son, the man that made himself strong, and had no fear of injury on my side as to my weakness or my pride. But I do find him a worthy man that I trust to be the best servant; for no other servant, he said to me as if I was an infant.
My first day he gave birth to me. In what age was we two adopted—of whom our age being one year younger and our age not ten years older, our bodies being different; and we took the boy he loved, even as he was already two years old? I was as surprised and glad as ever; but his heart did become broken for one minute and was not strong enough yet for that day to hold all these joyous experiences for a short, long time—because he said






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds
WINNER:
Or bends with the remover to remove.
O, no, it is an ever-fixed mark
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error, and upon me proved,
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
LOSER:
its place;
Which as it gives life into my heart,
That makes them more beautiful to the eye of
Love. It would be great indeed if God should not judge, if he would
Be right to condemn that.
Inasmuch as no two shall appear together by one mouth,
No men nor women and all will meet at a moment like this.
It is true that God could not judge between the sexes on an eternal
Alone law by saying God loves his neighbour, nor man on earth on an eternal Alone one.
I ask God to have mercy not for that in any and all things, to forbid such to do, that is I cannot but desire your forgiveness
Of any human subject in all things:

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Accuse me thus: that I have scanted all
Wherein I should your great deserts repay,
Forgot upon your dearest love to call,
WINNER:
Whereto all bonds do tie me day by day;
That I have frequent been with unknown minds,
And given to time your own dear-purchased right;
That I have hoisted sail to all the winds
Which should transport me farthest from your sight.
Book both my willfulness and errors down,
And on just proof surmise accumulate;
Bring me within the level of your frown,
But shoot not at me in your wakened hate,
Since my appeal says I did strive to prove
The constancy and virtue of your love.
LOSER:
In vain would you have done my want; my love shall pay in mineself."
M. de Saint Thomas. The poet says:
The greatest pain and grief to my father. How much more, as he has lost his life at present with this death which he has brought home;
If he cannot live with this and his blood that is at present there in which he hath to remain for forty or fifty years
And so suffer the dying man, now at this great loss
The same which this soul hath borne by it's hands at such loss,
As will so great and so high, as this world should have,
So that I never may fear more;
Because it is I who cannot endure it for forty
The most grievous. What will the end justify, when, when you come from all, who by thy deeds come into the grave?
This we must ask, with love and our sympathy. The first step toward healing him

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Like as to make our appetites more keen
With eager compounds we our palate urge;
As to prevent our maladies unseen
WINNER:
We sicken to shun sickness when we purge;
Even so, being full of your ne'er-cloying sweetness,
To bitter sauces did I frame my feeding;
And, sick of welfare, found a kind of meetness
To be diseased ere that there was true needing.
Thus policy in love, t' anticipate
The ills that were not, grew to faults assured,
And brought to medicine a healthful state
Which, rank of goodness, would by ill be cured.
But thence I learn, and find the lesson true:
Drugs poison him that so fell sick of you.
LOSER:
we taste, or
That it may be the more fruitful of our good tastes
(that if not poisoned can be easily cured),
But the whole body by this time I shall say to ourselves.
So with our appetite being so very intense, how soon is it to reach our appetite
A strong, hard taste must find a way out? But still if by some mistake it finds all this right it may pass on on
Such as these
Such as this to bring out more favourable effects. How much so that the effect should go unsparing
To the man, so well suited for the work he undertakes. And if we want our faculties to give rise to some different kinds of action the first step is to put an end to these sorts of experiments;
In order that by doing what is necessary they can, rather than that, may produce more favourable results,
From my own knowledge it is found that these very simple experiments do not give effect to the kind of act I am in; for this is not to say, that such acts or other effects do not contribute at most to the satisfaction of certain needs; they do make it necessary but they do it only by changing how that work takes place that it can give effect. When, by our ordinary work done with a long time, such experiments are not the kind used to accomplish

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
What potions have I drunk of siren tears
Distilled from limbecks foul as hell within,
Applying fears to hopes and hopes to fears,
WINNER:
Still losing when I saw myself to win!
What wretched errors hath my heart committed,
Whilst it hath thought itself so blessed never!
How have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
In the distraction of this madding fever!
O, benefit of ill! Now I find true
That better is by evil still made better;
And ruined love, when it is built anew,
Grows fairer than at first, more strong, far greater.
So I return rebuked to my content,
And gain by ills thrice more than I have spent.
LOSER:
A few months of work for me, now…
I have done everything, even when I think it would mean it.
I know everything I need as an elder
I would be lying if I wrote down it in words,
Not knowing the difference it would make.
My love and my love have always been one, my only and pure,
To know this. Because we could make things all we know.
I understand your feelings of loyalty, to us all, that our will is the light.
Every gift has a purpose, some might give me the power to find a way out of here.
Some a time in a short time we all fall out.
I may make changes you won't want but you won't care what I want or how far away your mind takes.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
That you were once unkind befriends me now,
And for that sorrow which I then did feel
Needs must I under my transgression bow,
WINNER:
Unless my nerves were brass or hammered steel.
For if you were by my unkindness shaken
As I by yours, you've passed a hell of time,
And I, a tyrant, have no leisure taken
To weigh how once I suffered in your crime.
O, that our night of woe might have remembered
My deepest sense how hard true sorrow hits,
And soon to you as you to me then tendered
The humble salve which wounded bosoms fits!
But that your trespass now becomes a fee;
Mine ransoms yours, and yours must ransom me.
LOSER:
The world may be safe at my home, when all be free
Where they have set on to me from the very first.
"What do you mean 'as long as I keep on saying it'? " - A man who was told by two men the night before
"He is the same he should know!"
"Why do you ask these two gentlemen why they must be so angry
In spite of all that you say to your wife or mother or brother or friend in heaven...?"- A man who is always mad - or sometimes of an absolute fury - at what they perceive - because he has not understood enough to be an honest man; and he never goes back in time. In those days, as long as no two men have all these differences
The Lord could not give it to your father; but you went your entire day of prayer to his head by taking one of his things from him without a trace, while at home you read them in his bedsheets and thought to your face in shame. You, too, prayed to your mother who came in that month and she replied: "She was my wife and did everything we might have said her; yet how shall it look then to a married woman for a boy to be sent there, as you ask your wife or daughter from the day he





----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
'Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed,
When not to be receives reproach of being,
And the just pleasure lost, which is so deemed
WINNER:
Not by our feeling but by others' seeing.
For why should others' false adulterate eyes
Give salutation to my sportive blood?
Or on my frailties why are frailer spies,
Which in their wills count bad what I think good?
No, I am that I am; and they that level
At my abuses reckon up their own.
I may be straight though they themselves be bevel;
By their rank thoughts my deeds must not be shown,
Unless this general evil they maintain:
All men are bad and in their badness reign.
LOSER:
?
It is as an evil to put all to death in any way, or that, though it may be found.
[I am not the devil's way to be condemned either, by a man to the stake or to all his kindred.]
HULK 1
PARRED LESS THAN TO DIE
[If men ever look as you do, a man has a new way to die; when, not to any end whatsoever, so they say, to die; but to be saved by a sacrifice. If you should find any thing less certain, you should find it less certain, and they cannot know any difference about it, and you cannot discover your faith without believing it by means of believing that something less. If you should say "That's a great way" to live better yourself; you must mean "I would much love the work that is already done or more." How would we feel by these remarks when you would just laugh at your wife when saying that if you said the man you've been talking to has just passed his last act of living there can't he just kill himself already and never go to sea?" So he'd never think "This has been going on long ago; and it could only be a way," but "By my words you






----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Thy gift, thy tables, are within my brain
Full charactered with lasting memory,
Which shall above that idle rank remain
WINNER:
Beyond all date, even to eternity--
Or, at the least, so long as brain and heart
Have faculty by nature to subsist;
Till each to razed oblivion yield his part
Of thee, thy record never can be missed.
That poor retention could not so much hold,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score;
Therefore to give them from me was I bold,
To trust those tables that receive thee more.
To keep an adjunct to remember thee
Were to import forgetfulness in me.
LOSER:
. Amen
Gorgeous, dear beloved child,
Whig children must know of thy virtue,
Of the greatest kind and great gift
That the Holy Trinity has; wherewith they may call
Abandoning all manner of things of this kind to be of God,
Thus the name of the Virgin shall appear. Amen; let no one in this present age
Fear your Father that your life might, even at its final,
Fall into that foul stench that your father, who sent
The Most High from Heaven,
He, the Lord of all, shall destroy.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
No, Time, thou shalt not boast that I do change.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
WINNER:
They are but dressings of a former sight.
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire
What thou dost foist upon us that is old,
And rather make them born to our desire
Than think that we before have heard them told.
Thy registers and thee I both defy,
Not wond'ring at the present nor the past;
For thy records and what we see doth lie,
Made more or less by thy continual haste.
This I do vow, and this shall ever be:
I will be true despite thy scythe and thee.
LOSER:
Thy art not the power to know. No to see what thy mind hath wrought.
Wherein the sky hath been silent and thy mind,
All time dim and all time bright.
There is never any place more perfect, no
Plainness or a better time, less quiet in my heart and
My sight to look; but more than all the other stars I have seen,
To give you some idea of what this time hath
I thought upon for a long time. No idea would give
A better answer to thee this way: I do make amends from thee
A man who never lived as a man, a fool: so thou art thy true enemy
I give not of the people of those times to any.

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
If my dear love were but the child of state,
It might for fortune's bastard be unfathered,
As subject to time's love or to time's hate,
WINNER:
Weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers gathered.
No, it was builded far from accident;
It suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
Under the blow of thralled discontent,
Whereto th' inviting time our fashion calls.
It fears not policy, that heretic
Which works on leases of short-numbered hours,
But all alone stands hugely politic,
That it nor grows with heat nor drowns with showers.
To this I witness call the fools of time,
Which die for goodness who have lived for crime.
LOSER:
Nor might he be unfathered when his will so
As might the son or the heir, he would be in peace.
But what will be the disposition which you hold
At once, to bear you one with you
Or let us pass that through which you live? How then might I be loved in the name of the King? For I love love love to a husband to the king, to a husband
Or to his wife or both, as a man love a friend and his love to her or his friend. How is a husband, by the king. And let us proceed. As your mother and my loving, you
Your daughter and son's mother and son and brother
And your holy sister and nephews.
To whose mother the love of your daughter and the love of your brother, as for whom you have never known;
Who is our beloved son who I love to-day. And, when his mother, beloved and my beloved,
Is dead, or at long last he is to be found and killed in my love of you and by his loved ones by whom you so love-hold him,

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Were 't aught to me I bore the canopy,
With my extern the outward honoring,
Or laid great bases for eternity,
WINNER:
Which proves more short than waste or ruining?
Have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Lose all and more by paying too much rent,
For compound sweet forgoing simple savor,
Pitiful thrivers, in their gazing spent?
No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And take thou my oblation, poor but free,
Which is not mixed with seconds, knows no art
But mutual render, only me for thee.
Hence, thou suborned informer; a true soul
When most impeached stands least in thy control.
LOSER:
And in it I see that heaven is all.
A word of this is in view, and, as it be said, that a man may love God as he feels.
If a word is necessary here, then I shall take them that will be willing—or, rather a little to be told; I will bring, with an intention on earth to speak by the grace of God of all men: it will have all the blessings of Christ on earth, which would require any great effort.









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
O thou, my lovely boy, who in thy power
Dost hold Time's fickle glass, his sickle hour;
Who hast by waning grown, and therein show'st
WINNER:
Thy lover's withering as thy sweet self grow'st.
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
She keeps thee to this purpose, that her skill
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
Yet fear her, O thou minion of her pleasure!
She may detain, but not still keep, her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.
LOSER:
his ill fortune,
O thou that hath brought this great one.
(SOUNDBITE OF D&C 2, 'THE TRIUMPH OF SEX', ADMITTING B)
As the time of the sun rises, and begins his reign, a few of those in that place, have made that prophecy to others in this place, and that are now a common legend at least.
THE STORY OF GILMOTH
In some towns some good men, having heard and come back in the following time,
And of great worth they gave out all good works to come
There of their fellows they called to look them up by their beauty of stature;
But that they saw in every town men that wore great works as they did,
And were told how beautiful the men that wore toil and hardship;
Then went their fellows with them as fast as they could through a very narrow valley,

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
In the old age, black was not counted fair,
Or, if it were, it bore not beauty's name;
But now is black beauty's successive heir,
WINNER:
And beauty slandered with a bastard shame.
For since each hand hath put on nature's power,
Fairing the foul with art's false borrowed face,
Sweet beauty hath no name, no holy bower,
But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
Therefore my mistress' eyes are raven black,
Her eyes so suited, and they mourners seem
At such who, not born fair, no beauty lack,
Sland'ring creation with a false esteem.
Yet so they mourn, becoming of their woe,
That every tongue says beauty should look so.
LOSER:
For the same shall he turn his back once more! [ edit ]
The white-bearded maiden was, as all women had been, always fair. [53] And by one in every way, she wore of a pure blue colour. As a result of this she had almost entirely forgotten her maidenhood, but at once had become a figure. Her beautiful face had also become red. Yet now was the colour of an old life at the close of her marriage to another boyhood-girl, but never of a black maiden's, that she might make of the little black her own. What beauty? she cried to herself when they spoke about beauty: "My shame, beauty; it does not give the most pleasant appearance to all." Indeed all her life, at the very close and of long before her younghood had ceased she said: "Oh! when the age of fairness has passed, it has come to be plain black and gold again!" In order not to be forgotten her life might now, on a future occasion, bring forth her most wonderful qualities as a child. At last she exclaimed to this her mother, whose childhood had passed, and who told her that not much had changed since her days, and said thus, without meaning to show how she may be remembered after










----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
How oft, when thou, my music, music play'st
Upon that blessed wood whose motion sounds
With thy sweet fingers when thou gently sway'st
WINNER:
The wiry concord that mine ear confounds,
Do I envy those jacks that nimble leap
To kiss the tender inward of thy hand,
Whilst my poor lips, which should that harvest reap,
At the wood's boldness by thee blushing stand.
To be so tickled they would change their state
And situation with those dancing chips,
O'er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
Making dead wood more blest than living lips.
Since saucy jacks so happy are in this,
Give them thy fingers, me thy lips to kiss.
LOSER:
't't. Amen
It never has, like thee, made a name that we cannot yet imagine. I mean, don't hold. My name is,
Makes it so difficult—you and me have always called it by some mysterious
Narcos appellation—but you have, alas, so little
With a voice we can make him blush, and laugh for thee:
When a mighty sun doth rise and take to thee what he never knew
Was, at any time at any distance, and so never at all—that it might
Never again give us fear and joy like, nor ever be fearer at all in sight. Amen. Oh, my god, my God, my God—this song can be so
Long, it really takes time and a miracle. It has so much, too,—and with all its energy; all
Its beauty, the joy itself and all its energy in my head have made me wish.
This song is that of a thousand stars in me on the black seas—to watch and watch. This, it says in an exuberance that it knows how long

----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Th' expense of spirit in a waste of shame
Is lust in action; and, till action, lust
Is perjured, murd'rous, bloody, full of blame,
WINNER:
Savage, extreme, rude, cruel, not to trust;
Enjoyed no sooner but despised straight;
Past reason hunted, and no sooner had,
Past reason hated as a swallowed bait
On purpose laid to make the taker mad.
Mad in pursuit and in possession so;
Had, having, and in quest to have, extreme;
A bliss in proof and proved a very woe;
Before, a joy proposed; behind, a dream.
All this the world well knows, yet none knows well
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell.
LOSER:
or corrupt; or, as the apostle said "Where is man that is so wicked as he is full of sin?" — 2 Timothy 2:18 (DUTCHING
What did we believe it said about it? That Satan gave Satan an iron rod, or more, by which an arrow should strike one of us. But we cannot conceive such a thing to be in any way different from the law to cast off his penalty for evil conduct from punishment and everlasting damnation. Nor is he even remotely more so for the same reason. There has never been anything in his book in which he was either convicted for good conduct or guilty.
There cannot be, for that very reason of what Jesus had called "the perfect punishment; and there has never been anything that He is able and good and is more faithful to God in that matter than that." We could say (that would have no bearing at all on the meaning of the whole book, and not of the first part of Acts), "it was not the perfect punishment, but just and merciful obedience by Him for the punishment which he suffered for his guilt over our father Jesus and his sins."[25] It was no wonder then that we could make no mention that the rod or arrow at the hands of Christ, at times literally rendered









----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun;
Coral is far more red than her lips' red;
If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun;
WINNER:
If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head.
I have seen roses damasked, red and white,
But no such roses see I in her cheeks;
And in some perfumes is there more delight
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
I love to hear her speak, yet well I know
That music hath a far more pleasing sound.
I grant I never saw a goddess go;
My mistress, when she walks, treads on the ground.
And yet, by heaven, I think my love as rare
As any she belied with false compare.
LOSER:
They won't get much help now, for they're red. Coggo's white; and he must be glad he came this way. She looks as if she was wearing the mask; and she smiles to himself:
In an early afternoon she is the prettiest among men, for both her eyes are yellow. Here the girl is with joy. She must get all the strength he deserves, and will have sex without anyone being sad; no one will be angry over what was her husband' red. Then there's her; I could not have any fun at this sight!
And I had to put some more fire out in order, because some people would want to put away the little flowers that fell from a tree.'
Diana gave a loud gurgle of her finger; he took it as an appeal, and she sat down. I'd love for them to go on, because if it had been not for his presence at the dance, she never could have known any other colour could cover me. Dagon went to my room, so that if the moon had a light from it or a green it would fill the room. He would sit with me before we got to a table, with white fluttered glasses on each side. It must be nice to him with all the








----- SONNET PAIR -----
PROMPT:
Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,
As those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
WINNER:
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Yet in good faith some say that thee behold,
Thy face hath not the power to make love groan;
To say they err I dare not be so bold,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thy black is fairest in my judgment's place.
In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
And thence this slander as I think proceeds.
LOSER:
's, who has the right mind.
And if by thy wise will thou allow it to shine into its proper glory,
But on those whose hands have already been ragged and are to fall into decay,
And with all ease draw thy breath on these beauties from thy feet;
Thou art the supreme tyrant;
That art the very father of power,
And what is no longer possible if men alone fear or wish to judge!
He who fears not or has, with their heart-stirring and ardent desires,
Whom all his evil deeds seem the very son-in-arms
Of power, as well as their faults, know his folly,
And when he takes notice of a foolish thing which he must confess,

